
      			Data Visualization: A Practical Introduction An accessible primer on how to create effective graphics from data

This book provides students and researchers a hands-on introduction to the principles and practice of data visualization. It explains what makes some graphs succeed while others fail, how to make high-quality figures from data using powerful and reproducible methods, and how to think about data visualization in an honest and effective way.Data Visualization builds the reader’s expertise in ggplot2, a versatile visualization library for the R programming language. Through a series of worked examples, this accessible primer then demonstrates how to create plots piece by piece, beginning with summaries of single variables and moving on to more complex graphics. Topics include plotting continuous and categorical variables; layering information on graphics; producing effective “small multiple” plots; grouping, summarizing, and transforming data for plotting; creating maps; working with the output of statistical models; and refining plots to make them more comprehensible.Effective graphics are essential to communicating ideas and a great way to better understand data. This book provides the practical skills students and practitioners need to visualize quantitative data and get the most out of their research findings.Provides hands-on instruction using R and ggplot2Shows how the “tidyverse” of data analysis tools makes working with R easier and more consistentIncludes a library of data sets, code, and functions




Kieran Healy is associate professor of sociology at Duke University. He is the author of Last Best Gifts: Altruism and the Market for Human Blood and Organs.











"[Healy’s] prose is engaging and chatty, and the style of instruction is unpretentious and practical . . . This single volume represents an excellent entry point for those wishing to upskill their abilities in data visualization."—Paul Cuffe, IEEE Transactions
"Undoubtedly, this book is an excellent introduction to an essential tool for anyone who needs to collect and present data."—Conservation Biology
“Finally! A data visualization guide that is simultaneously practical and elegant. Healy combines the beauty and insight of Tufte with the concrete helpfulness of Stack Exchange. Data Visualization is brimming with insights into how quantitative analysts can use visualization as a tool for understanding and communication. A must-read for anyone who works with data.”—Elizabeth Bruch, University of Michigan
“Healy’s fun and readable book is unusual in covering the ‘why do’ as well as the ‘how to’ of data visualization, demonstrating how dataviz is a key step in all stages of social science—from theory construction to measurement to modeling and interpretation of analyses—and giving readers the tools to integrate visualization into their own work.”—Andrew Gelman, author of Red State, Blue State, Rich State, Poor State: Why Americans Vote the Way They Do 
“Data Visualization is a brilliant book that not only teaches the reader how to visualize data but also carefully considers why data visualization is essential for good social science. The book is broadly relevant, beautifully rendered, and engagingly written. It is easily accessible for students at any level and will be an incredible teaching resource for courses on research methods, statistics, and data visualization. It is packed full of clear-headed and sage insights.”—Becky Pettit, University of Texas at Austin
“Healy provides a unique introduction to the process of visualizing quantitative data, offering a remarkably coherent treatment that will appeal to novices and advanced analysts alike. There is no other book quite like this.”—Thomas J. Leeper, London School of Economics
“Kieran Healy has written a wonderful book that fills an important niche in an increasingly crowded landscape of materials about software in R. Data Visualization is clear, beautifully formatted, and full of careful insights.”—Brandon Stewart, Princeton University
“Healy’s prose is clear and direct. I came away from this book with a much better understanding of both visualizations and R.”—Neal Caren, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
“Innovative and extraordinarily well-written.”—Jeremy Freese, Stanford University


      			Programming as if People Mattered: Friendly Programs, Software Engineering, and Other Noble Delusions 

Through a set of lively anecdotes and essays, Nathaniel Borenstein traces the divergence between the fields of software engineering and user-centered software design, and attempts to reconcile the needs of people in both camps.Originally published in 1991.The Princeton Legacy Library uses the latest print-on-demand technology to again make available previously out-of-print books from the distinguished backlist of Princeton University Press. These editions preserve the original texts of these important books while presenting them in durable paperback and hardcover editions. The goal of the Princeton Legacy Library is to vastly increase access to the rich scholarly heritage found in the thousands of books published by Princeton University Press since its founding in 1905.








"This book is very easy to read, and is so entertaining that it is hard to put down.... An excellent book, and a must-read for software professionals."—Choice
"The book provides a stimulating read, with a fair sprinkling of controversial opinions from which intelligent readers . . . will draw their own conclusions."—J. Dodd, Information and Science Technology
"This book's great glory is the author's implicit, but pervasive, notion that the human interface extends through software; and that programs are just ways that people tell computers what they should be doing. . . . [A] book filled with points to think about well before you start coding menus or screens."—UnixWorld
"A witty look at the foibles of software engineering, based on real examples. . . . This voice of experience offers a good dose of humility to arrogant young programmers."—American Mathematical Monthly


      			Automata Studies. (AM-34), Volume 34		

The description for this book, Automata Studies. (AM-34), Volume 34, will be forthcoming.








      			Applied Dynamic Programming		

This comprehensive study of dynamic programming applied to numerical solution of optimization problems. It will interest aerodynamic, control, and industrial engineers, numerical analysts, and computer specialists, applied mathematicians, economists, and operations and systems analysts.Originally published in 1962.The Princeton Legacy Library uses the latest print-on-demand technology to again make available previously out-of-print books from the distinguished backlist of Princeton University Press. These editions preserve the original texts of these important books while presenting them in durable paperback and hardcover editions. The goal of the Princeton Legacy Library is to vastly increase access to the rich scholarly heritage found in the thousands of books published by Princeton University Press since its founding in 1905.








      			How the Internet Became Commercial: Innovation, Privatization, and the Birth of a New Network 

In less than a decade, the Internet went from being a series of loosely connected networks used by universities and the military to the powerful commercial engine it is today. This book describes how many of the key innovations that made this possible came from entrepreneurs and iconoclasts who were outside the mainstream—and how the commercialization of the Internet was by no means a foregone conclusion at its outset.Shane Greenstein traces the evolution of the Internet from government ownership to privatization to the commercial Internet we know today. This is a story of innovation from the edges. Greenstein shows how mainstream service providers that had traditionally been leaders in the old-market economy became threatened by innovations from industry outsiders who saw economic opportunities where others didn’t—and how these mainstream firms had no choice but to innovate themselves. New models were tried: some succeeded, some failed. Commercial markets turned innovations into valuable products and services as the Internet evolved in those markets. New business processes had to be created from scratch as a network originally intended for research and military defense had to deal with network interconnectivity, the needs of commercial users, and a host of challenges with implementing innovative new services.How the Internet Became Commercial demonstrates how, without any central authority, a unique and vibrant interplay between government and private industry transformed the Internet.

Awards and Recognition

Co-Winner of the 2016 Schumpeter Prize Competition, International Joseph A. Schumpeter Society





Shane Greenstein is the Martin Marshall Professor of Business Administration and codirector of the program on the economics of digitization at the National Bureau of Economic Research. His books include Diamonds Are Forever, Computers Are Not and Standards and Public Policy.











"Essential reading for anyone who wants to understand the broader context in which the explosion of Internet-related innovation occurred."—Marc Levinson, Wall Street Journal
"A welcome, well-conceived contribution to the history of technology."—Kirkus
"Exciting reading."—Borsen
"Definitely recommended."—Tyler Cowen, Marginal Revolution
"This is the best book yet about the rise of the Internet."—David Warsh, Economic Principals
"[A] detailed history of the Internet."—Foreign Affairs
"Immensely informative."—Philadelphia Inquirer
"Greenstein is not simply telling a colorful and important story. His analysis systematically explores why innovation and commercialization of the Internet emerged and evolved as it did and why innovation from the edges thrived and was so important."—Jonathan David Aronson, Journal of Communication
"A must for students and purveyors on the Internet. . . . [I]f you are interested in the dotcom boom; or how the Internet evolved to create new business models and inspired scores of new age entrepreneurs, this book will not disappoint you."—Parveen Mittal, Businessworld
"In this important book, Greenstein draws on economics, business history, and the history of technology to tell a story of disruption on a grand scale. He shows how outsiders to the information and communications technology establishment brought the Internet from its techie origins to its current role as an economic growth engine."—Timothy Bresnahan, Stanford University
"With this engaging account of the Internet's origins and innovative explosion, Shane Greenstein cements his claim as the foremost economic historian of digital technology. An essential read for all who want to understand the miracle of our lifetime."—Joshua Gans, University of Toronto
"Greenstein offers a powerful and lucid account of the way the Internet's exceptional growth arose from unexceptional economic forces.How the Internet Became Commercialis a foundational read for anyone wanting to understand the origins and dynamics of the mainstream Internet."—Jonathan Zittrain, Harvard Law School
"The Internet and its applications are transforming business and commerce. There is no economist on the planet who has done more to document its economic origins, evolution, and implications than Shane Greenstein. This book should be required reading for any serious student of the topic."—Erik Brynjolfsson, director of the MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy and coauthor of The Second Machine Age
"The Internet has affected our lives profoundly over the past quarter-century. Yet far too often, its features are taken as given, without understanding the genesis of this critical innovation. Shane Greenstein's book lucidly illustrates the key decisions behind today's Internet, and offers lessons for innovation policy more generally."—Josh Lerner, Harvard Business School
"Greenstein has written one of the most important books available about how the Internet came into existence, commercialized, and became so important in American life. It will be the standard work on the subject for many years. It is also a great read."—James W. Cortada, author of The Essential Manager: How to Thrive in the Global Information Jungle
"This book starts at the moment when most histories of the Internet end, providing a comprehensive and engaging explanation of how an academically oriented research network transformed so quickly and completely into the commercial infrastructure of the early twenty-first century."—Nathan L. Ensmenger, author of The Computer Boys Take Over: Computers, Programmers, and the Politics of Technical Expertise


      			The Silicon Jungle: A Novel of Deception, Power, and Internet Intrigue 

What happens when a naive intern is granted unfettered access to people’s most private thoughts and actions? Stephen Thorpe lands a coveted internship at Ubatoo, an Internet empire that provides its users with popular online services, from a search engine and e-mail, to social networking. When Stephen’s boss asks him to work on a project with the American Coalition for Civil Liberties, Stephen innocently obliges, believing he is mining Ubatoo’s vast databases to protect people unfairly targeted in the name of national security. But nothing is as it seems. Suspicious individuals surface, doing all they can to access Ubatoo’s wealth of confidential information. This need not require technical wizardry—simply knowing how to manipulate a well-intentioned intern may be enough. The Silicon Jungle is a cautionary fictional tale of data mining’s promise and peril. Baluja raises ethical questions about contemporary technological innovations, and how minute details can be routinely pieced together into rich profiles that reveal our habits, goals, and secret desires—all ready to be exploited.

Awards and Recognition

Co-Winner of the 2012 Mary Shelley Award for Outstanding Fictional Work, Media Ecology Association





Shumeet Baluja is a senior staff research scientist at Google and the inventor of over 100 patents in algorithms, data mining, privacy, and artificial intelligence.











"Baluja's clever, cynical debut explores the frightening possibilities of data mining. . . . A nod to Upton Sinclair's muckraking The Jungle, which scared its readers into regulating the meat-packing industry, this lively if depressing novel suggests that computer snooping is too seductive to control, despite the consequences."—Publishers Weekly
"[F]righteningly convincing. . . . The read is quick, the questions will linger, and the ideas are so intriguing. . . . Baluja simplifies the abstract world of tech-speak for the rest of us while aiming to do for the Internet what Upton Sinclair's The Jungle did for the meat industry: make readers reconsider its safety. For fans of intelligent thrillers."—Stephen Morrow, Library Journal
"In the era of the ubiquitous web company, The Silicon Jungle provides ample food for thought."—Zena Iovino, New Scientist
"[T]his cautionary tale is fascinating for its exploration of technology as a conduit for crime."—Michele Leber, Booklist Online
"The book's central message is fascinating. A company like Google, Baluja points out, has far more information on U.S. citizens than does the FBI and far fewer restrictions on how to use it. It's a chilling message in a fun package."—Kathleen Offenholley, Mathematics Teacher
"A cerebral, cautionary tale. Credible and scary."—Vint Cerf, Google Vice President and Chief Internet Evangelist and one of the "Fathers of the Internet"
"At last, computer science has its equivalent to Scott Turow. Shumeet Baluja not only tells a compelling story, but as an expert in data mining, he also knows his stuff. His story shows how powerful and far-reaching modern search technology can be, and hence, potentially dangerous if not properly controlled. A techno-thriller with a disturbing message."—Keith Devlin, author of The Unfinished Game: Pascal, Fermat, and the Seventeenth-Century Letter that Made the World Modern
"Clever and prophetic. The Silicon Jungle will be required reading from Silicon Valley to Washington, DC."—Marc Rotenberg, Electronic Privacy Information Center
"The Silicon Jungle is an engaging and welcome addition to the literature of dystopia. The connections drawn between people, places, products, and internet usage, as well as the data-mining scientists in this suspenseful and alarming novel, show us that the decline of individual freedoms can occur not through weapons and coups, but through profiles germinated from algorithmic seeds."—Gary T. Marx, author of Undercover: Police Surveillance in America
"This novel will open your eyes to issues of privacy on the internet and to the hazards of placing uncritical, blind trust in the people overseeing this vast enterprise. Baluja tells a story about something that could happen to any of us—if you're even modestly concerned about information privacy, this is an important book to read."—Roy Maxion, Carnegie Mellon University
"The Silicon Jungle expertly explores a major 'what if' that should interest anyone who has ever used a cell phone or Wi-Fi connection, or typed a keystroke on a computer connected to the internet. The story is intriguing, well researched, well written, and frighteningly probable. A delightfully entertaining and thought-provoking read for all."—Retired Senior Official, National Security Agency
"This novel does an excellent job of introducing the ideas behind data mining and provides greater insight into the process than anything I have seen in fiction. The book presents a number of important issues, both technical and social."—Joseph D. Sloan, Wofford College


      			Alan Turing's Systems of Logic: The Princeton Thesis A facsimile edition of Alan Turing's influential Princeton thesis

Between inventing the concept of a universal computer in 1936 and breaking the German Enigma code during World War II, Alan Turing (1912–1954), the British founder of computer science and artificial intelligence, came to Princeton University to study mathematical logic. Some of the greatest logicians in the world—including Alonzo Church, Kurt Gödel, John von Neumann, and Stephen Kleene—were at Princeton in the 1930s, and they were working on ideas that would lay the groundwork for what would become known as computer science. This book presents a facsimile of the original typescript of Turing’s fascinating and influential 1938 Princeton PhD thesis, one of the key documents in the history of mathematics and computer science. The book also features essays by Andrew Appel and Solomon Feferman that explain the still-unfolding significance of the ideas Turing developed at Princeton.A work of philosophy as well as mathematics, Turing’s thesis envisions a practical goal—a logical system to formalize mathematical proofs so they can be checked mechanically. If every step of a theorem could be verified mechanically, the burden on intuition would be limited to the axioms. Turing’s point, as Appel writes, is that “mathematical reasoning can be done, and should be done, in mechanizable formal logic.” Turing’s vision of “constructive systems of logic for practical use” has become reality: in the twenty-first century, automated “formal methods” are now routine.Presented here in its original form, this fascinating thesis is one of the key documents in the history of mathematics and computer science.




Andrew W. Appel is the Eugene Higgins Professor and Chairman of the Department of Computer Science at Princeton University.






"This book presents the story of Turing's work at Princeton University and includes a facsimile of his doctoral dissertation, 'Systems of Logic Based on Ordinals,' which he completed in 1936. The author includes a detailed history of Turing's work in computer science and the attempts to ground the field in formal logic."—Mathematics Teacher
"This book is not for the faint hearted, as with the great masters of painting it will insist that some thought goes into appreciating it. . . . I love the book as a book. It is a collectors item and after all what better pursuit can one have than collecting books!"—Patrick Fogarty, Mathematics Today
"For me, this is the most interesting of Alan Turing's writings, and it is a real delight to see a facsimile of the original typescript here. The work is packed with ideas that have turned out to be significant for all sorts of current research areas in computer science and mathematics."—Barry Cooper, University of Leeds


      			Alan Turing: The Enigma: The Book That Inspired the Film The Imitation Game - Updated Edition A NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLERThe official book behind the Academy Award-winning film The Imitation Game, starring Benedict Cumberbatch and Keira Knightley

It is only a slight exaggeration to say that the British mathematician Alan Turing (1912-1954) saved the Allies from the Nazis, invented the computer and artificial intelligence, and anticipated gay liberation by decades — all before his suicide at age forty-one. This New York Times–bestselling biography of the founder of computer science, with a new preface by the author that addresses Turing’s royal pardon in 2013, is the definitive account of an extraordinary mind and life.Capturing both the inner and outer drama of Turing’s life, Andrew Hodges tells how Turing’s revolutionary idea of 1936 — the concept of a universal machine — laid the foundation for the modern computer and how Turing brought the idea to practical realization in 1945 with his electronic design. The book also tells how this work was directly related to Turing’s leading role in breaking the German Enigma ciphers during World War II, a scientific triumph that was critical to Allied victory in the Atlantic. At the same time, this is the tragic account of a man who, despite his wartime service, was eventually arrested, stripped of his security clearance, and forced to undergo a humiliating treatment program — all for trying to live honestly in a society that defined homosexuality as a crime.The inspiration for a major motion picture starring Benedict Cumberbatch and Keira Knightley, Alan Turing: The Enigma is a gripping story of mathematics, computers, cryptography, and homosexual persecution.

Awards and Recognition

A New York Times Bestseller 2014, 2015
The Imitation Game, Winner of the 2015 Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay
Winner of the 2015 (27th) USC Libraries Scripter Award, University of Southern California Libraries
One of The Guardian’s Best Popular Physical Science Books of 2014, chosen by GrrlScientist





Andrew Hodges teaches mathematics at the University of Oxford.






"Scrupulous and enthralling."—A. O. Scott, New York Times
"One of the finest scientific biographies ever written."—Jim Holt, New Yorker
"Andrew Hodges' 1983 book Alan Turing: The Enigma, is the indispensable guide to Turing's life and work and one of the finest biographies of a scientific genius ever written."—Michael Hiltzik, Los Angeles Times
"Turing's rehabilitation from over a quarter-century's embarrassed silence was largely the result of Andrew Hodges's superb biography, Alan Turing: The Enigma (1983; reissued with a new introduction in 2012). Hodges examined available primary sources and interviewed surviving witnesses to elucidate Turing's multiple dimensions. A mathematician, Hodges ably explained Turing's intellectual accomplishments with insight, and situated them within their wider historical contexts. He also empathetically explored the centrality of Turing's sexual identity to his thought and life in a persuasive rather than reductive way."—Michael Saler, Times Literary Supplement
"On the face of it, a richly detailed 500-page biography of a mathematical genius and analysis of his ideas, might seem a daunting proposition. But fellow mathematician and author Hodges has acutely clear and often extremely moving insight into the humanity behind the leaping genius that helped to crack the Germans' Enigma codes during World War II and bring about the dawn of the computer age. . . . This melancholy story is transfigured into something else: an exploration of the relationship between machines and the soul and a full-throated celebration of Turing's brilliance, unselfconscious quirkiness and bravery in a hostile age."—Sinclair McKay, Wall Street Journal
"A first-class contribution to history and an exemplary work of biography."—I. J. Good, Nature
"An almost perfect match of biographer and subject. . . . [A] great book."—Ray Monk, Guardian
"A superb biography. . . . Written by a mathematician, it describes in plain language Turing's work on the foundations of computer science and how he broke the Germans' Enigma code in the Second World War. The subtle depiction of class rivalries, personal relationships, and Turing's tragic end are worthy of a novel. But this was a real person. Hodges describes the man, and the science that fascinated him—which once saved, and still influences, our lives."—Margaret Boden, New Scientist
"Andrew Hodges's magisterial Alan Turing: The Enigma . . . is still the definitive text."—Joshua Cohen, Harper's
"Andrew Hodges's biography is a meticulously researched and written account detailing every aspect of Turing's life. . . . This account of Turing's life is a definitive scholarly work, rich in primary source documentation and small-grained historical detail."—Mathematics Teacher
"Tells a powerful story that combines professional success and personal tragedy."—Nancy Szokan, Washington Post
"[A] really excellent biography. . . . The great thing about this book is that the author is a mathematician and can explain the details of Turing's work—as a scientist, mathematician, and a code breaker—in a way that is easy to understand. He is also wonderful at the emotional nuance of Alan's life, who was a somewhat odd—a student was assigned to him in school to help him maintain a semblance of tidiness in his appearance, rooms and school work and at Bletchley Park he was known for chaining his tea mug to a pipe—but he was also charming and intelligent and Hodges brings all the aspects of his personality and life into sharp focus."—Off the Shelf
"This book is an incredibly detailed and meticulously researched biography of Alan Turing. Reading it is a melancholy experience, since you know from the outset that the ending is a tragic one and that knowledge overshadows you throughout. While the author divides the text into two parts, it actually reads like a play in four acts. . . . This book is Turing's memorial, and one that does justice to the subject."—Katherine Safford-Ramus, MAA Reviews
"The new paperback edition of the 1983 book that inspired the film, with an updated introduction by Oxford mathematics professor Andrew Hodges, is an exhilarating, compassionate and detailed biography of a complicated man."—Jane Ciabattari, BBC
"If [The Imitation Game] does nothing else but send you, as it did me, to Alan Hodges's Alan Turing: The Enigma (1983, newly prefaced in the 2014 Princeton University Press edition) it more than justifies its existence. A great read, Hodges's intellectual biography depicts Turing as a brilliant mathematician; a crucial pioneering figure in the theorization and engineering of digital computing; and the biggest brain in Bletchley Park's Hut #8."—Amy Taubin, Artforum
"It is indeed the ultimate biography of Alan Turing. It will bring you as close as possible to his enigmatic personality."—Adhemar Bultheel, European Mathematical Society
"A book whose time has finally come. I found it to be a page-turner in spite of the occasionally esoteric explanations of mathematical theories that reminded of why Brooklyn Technical High School was not the wisest choice for me."—Terrance, Paris Readers Circle
"Thanks to the movie The Imitation Game, Alan Turing has emerged from history's shadows, where his memory had languished for decades. For anyone whose interest in the pioneering computer scientist, mathematician, and logician was piqued by the film, the book that served as the film's source material, Andrew Hodges's exhaustive biography Alan Turing: The Enigma, has the answers."—Frank Caso, Simply Charly
"One of the finest scientific biographies I've ever read: authoritative, superbly researched, deeply sympathetic, and beautifully told."—Sylvia Nasar, author of A Beautiful Mind
"A captivating, compassionate portrait of a first-rate scientist who gave so much to a world that in the end cruelly rejected him. Perceptive and absorbing, Andrew Hodges's book is scientific biography at its best."—Paul Hoffman, author of The Man Who Loved Only Numbers
"A remarkable and admirable biography."—Simon Singh, author of The Code Book and Fermat's Enigma
"A first-rate presentation of the life of a first-rate scientific mind.... It is hard to imagine a more thoughtful and compassionate portrait of a human being."—from the Foreword by Douglas Hofstadter


      			How to Walk on Water and Climb up Walls: Animal Movement and the Robots of the Future Discovering the secrets of animal movement and what they can teach us

Insects walk on water, snakes slither, and fish swim. Animals move with astounding grace, speed, and versatility: how do they do it, and what can we learn from them? In How to Walk on Water and Climb up Walls, David Hu takes readers on an accessible, wondrous journey into the world of animal motion. From basement labs at MIT to the rain forests of Panama, Hu shows how animals have adapted and evolved to traverse their environments, taking advantage of physical laws with results that are startling and ingenious. In turn, the latest discoveries about animal mechanics are inspiring scientists to invent robots and devices that move with similar elegance and efficiency.Hu follows scientists as they investigate a multitude of animal movements, from the undulations of sandfish and the way that dogs shake off water in fractions of a second to the seemingly crash-resistant characteristics of insect flight. Not limiting his exploration to individual organisms, Hu describes the ways animals enact swarm intelligence, such as when army ants cooperate and link their bodies to create bridges that span ravines. He also looks at what scientists learn from nature’s unexpected feats—such as snakes that fly, mosquitoes that survive rainstorms, and dead fish that swim upstream. As researchers better understand such issues as energy, flexibility, and water repellency in animal movement, they are applying this knowledge to the development of cutting-edge technology.Integrating biology, engineering, physics, and robotics, How to Walk on Water and Climb up Walls demystifies the remarkable mechanics behind animal locomotion.

Q&A with David Hu


Awards and Recognition

Co-Winner of the AIP Science Communication Book Award, American Institute of Physics
Longlisted for the Young Adult Science Book Award, AAAS/Subaru SB&F Prize for Excellence in Science Books
Finalist for the AAAS/Subaru SB&F Prizes for Excellence in Science Books, Young Adult Science Books
One of Inverse's Best Science Books of 2018





David L. Hu is associate professor of mechanical engineering and biology and adjunct professor of physics at Georgia Institute of Technology. He lives in Atlanta.






















“With infectious enthusiasm and curiosity, David Hu asks why natural selection may have favored one design over another. From flying snakes to the eyelashes of giraffes, he sees mechanical challenges everywhere, and his crazy experiments help us understand how animals dry their bodies, move, pee, and eat.”—Frans de Waal, author of Are We Smart Enough to Know How Smart Animals Are?
“I recommend this book to all interested in biology and nature-inspired engineering. They will learn much and be marvelously entertained.”—Bert Hölldobler, coauthor of The Ants
“Read this fascinating book to learn how sharks move, why an elephant doesn’t take longer to empty its bladder than a human does, how mosquitoes fly in the rain, and how cockroaches avoid bumping into walls in the dark. Read it too to learn why the study of these seemingly obscure corners of the living world has the potential to offer enormous benefits to humanity.”—Rob Dunn, author of Never Out of Season
“This clear and engaging book introduces readers to the study of animal motion and mechanics. Demonstrating the effectiveness of an interdisciplinary approach to the analysis of animal structure and function, the book balances attention to pure science and discoveries about fundamental aspects of the natural world with a consideration of how research in this area could contribute to new technologies.”—Sharon Swartz, Brown University 


      			Topics in Quaternion Linear Algebra		

Quaternions are a number system that has become increasingly useful for representing the rotations of objects in three-dimensional space and has important applications in theoretical and applied mathematics, physics, computer science, and engineering. This is the first book to provide a systematic, accessible, and self-contained exposition of quaternion linear algebra. It features previously unpublished research results with complete proofs and many open problems at various levels, as well as more than 200 exercises to facilitate use by students and instructors. Applications presented in the book include numerical ranges, invariant semidefinite subspaces, differential equations with symmetries, and matrix equations.Designed for researchers and students across a variety of disciplines, the book can be read by anyone with a background in linear algebra, rudimentary complex analysis, and some multivariable calculus. Instructors will find it useful as a complementary text for undergraduate linear algebra courses or as a basis for a graduate course in linear algebra. The open problems can serve as research projects for undergraduates, topics for graduate students, or problems to be tackled by professional research mathematicians. The book is also an invaluable reference tool for researchers in fields where techniques based on quaternion analysis are used.

Awards and Recognition

One of Choice's Outstanding Academic Titles for 2015





Leiba Rodman is professor of mathematics at the College of William & Mary. His books include Matrix Polynomials, Algebraic Riccati Equations, and Indefinite Linear Algebra and Applications.











"Rodman fills a void in the monographic literature with this work."—Choice
"The book is self-contained and well organized. . . . Full and detailed proofs are supplied. Another exciting point is the presence of many open problems throughout the book."—Gisele C. Ducati, MatchSciNet
"[This book] will be an important reference for years to come for both researchers in the field of linear algebra and scientists who apply quaternions."—Ch. Baxa, Zentralblatt Math
"This is a very serious treatise by an author who is a powerful researcher and a clear expositor. I know of no other book that treats both the basic theory and advanced material as carefully and as comprehensively as this one. Topics in Quaternion Linear Algebra is a singular contribution of considerable value."—Douglas R. Farenick, author of Algebras of Linear Transformations
"This unique book brings under one cover various recent results obtained by Rodman, several of his collaborators, and other researchers. In addition to general topics in quaternionic linear algebra, it treats extensively the canonical forms of several types of quaternionic matrix pencils and the quaternionic numerical ranges of matrices. "—Dragomir Djokovic, distinguished professor emeritus, University of Waterloo


      			Math Bytes: Google Bombs, Chocolate-Covered Pi, and Other Cool Bits in Computing An inviting collection of fun, hands-on applications in mathematics and computing

This book provides a fun, hands-on approach to learning how mathematics and computing relate to the world around us and help us to better understand it. How can reposting on Twitter kill a movie’s opening weekend? How can you use mathematics to find your celebrity look-alike? What is Homer Simpson’s method for disproving Fermat’s Last Theorem? Each topic in this refreshingly inviting book illustrates a famous mathematical algorithm or result — such as Google’s PageRank and the traveling salesman problem — and the applications grow more challenging as you progress through the chapters. But don’t worry, helpful solutions are provided each step of the way.Math Bytes shows you how to do calculus using a bag of chocolate chips, and how to prove the Euler characteristic simply by doodling. Generously illustrated in color throughout, this lively and entertaining book also explains how to create fractal landscapes with a roll of the dice, pick a competitive bracket for March Madness, decipher the math that makes it possible to resize a computer font or launch an Angry Bird — and much, much more. All of the applications are presented in an accessible and engaging way, enabling beginners and advanced readers alike to learn and explore at their own pace — a bit and a byte at a time.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the Euler Book Prize, Mathematical Association of America
One of Choice's Outstanding Academic Titles for 2014





Tim Chartier is associate professor of mathematics at Davidson College. He is the coauthor of Numerical Methods (Princeton).






"[Math Bytes] manages to fulfill its aim of providing a 'tasty byte of math and computing' while following a clear, concise, and to-the-point format. . . . [P]rovides interesting insights to some of the complex, highly sophisticated algorithms that lie behind some of our most widely used technological resources."—Rachael Skyner, Science
"The author's humanistic, sincere enjoyment of communicating his selections permeates and I think defines the book. . . . The choice of topics and exposition details make the book entertainingly relevant."—Alexander Bogomolny, Cut the Knot
"Math Bytes is fun and full of puzzles and brainteasers in a mashup of mathematics, social media, and pop culture referencing Beyoncé, Google, and Twitter among others. . . . This reviewer is simply a fool for math puzzles (though some readers might stop at simply a fool). Math Bytes scratches that itch quite nicely."—Robert Schaefer, New York Journal of Books
"Printed on glossy paper and filled with colourful photographs, illustrations and diagrams on nearly every page, this book discusses mathematical ideas that can help us make sense of the digital world. The author's offbeat viewpoint comes from a truly unusual background; he studied mime with the legendary Marcel Marceau whilst pursuing his doctorate in applied maths."—Devorah Bennu, GrrlScientist
"Tim Chartier, a professor of mathematics at Davidson College, has put together a delightful book of recreational mathematics. His presentation of a large array of topics is accompanied by excellent graphics, many in color. . . . In sum, a fun book."—Philip J. Davis, SIAM News
"The mathematical topics are interesting and informative; if you teach at the college level, you are likely to find some interesting fodder for your courses here. You also may, as I did, learn some new things yourself. . . . This book, which is filled with photos, drawings, and anecdotes, is a treasure trove of amusing mathematical vignettes. It makes for very pleasant summer reading."—Mark Hunacek, MAA Reviews
"The reader is constantly challenged to think about it or answer certain questions and to solve some problems (some solutions are provided at the end). Most of all, it's such a lovely little booklet that does not give you the time to get bored with. The average chapter length, including the many illustrations, is only 10 pages. Just enough to catch your interest and get bitten by the mathematics."—A. Bultheel, European Mathematical Society
"For readers who love math, computing and puzzles, Math Bytes will be a welcome gift."—George Erdosh, San Francisco Book Review
"[L]ively and entertaining book. . . . All of the applications are presented in an accessible and engaging way, enabling beginners and advanced readers alike to learn and explore at their own pace—a bit and a byte at a time."—Zentralblatt MATH
"A mathematical Pandora's box released is perhaps the best way to describe this book. It overflows with ideas, flitting from one fascinating topic to the next, often without an apparent connection. The range is impressive. . . . Everyone should find a 'math byte' of interest in this book, and perhaps end up finding other topics of interest as well."—Choice
"I definitely learnt a few new things and was entertained as I did so. Furthermore, anything that spreads the message that mathematics is both interesting and useful has to be a good thing, so I wish this book success."—Rob Ashmore, Mathematics Today
"A fun collection of mathematical applications that has something for everyone, even mathphobes."—Anne Quinn, National Council of Teachers of Mathematics
"The book would also be a good read for anyone who needs reaffirmation that the bedrock of computing is mathematics. The author makes this point in a vibrant and contemporary way."—Vincent Ting, Mathematical Gazette
"This is possibly the first book I’ve ever read which could truly be described as a ‘gem’. . . . I have rarely come across a book which crams so many ideas so well into so few pages, and it is full of delights."—Alasdair McAndrew, Gazette of the Australian Mathematical Society
"How can you tell, by just looking, that 178212 + 184112 = 192212 is not a true statement? When you search for something on the web, how does Google know how to respond with the most relevant hits first? Chartier tells you how in this book. Each new discussion illustrates the almost supernatural explanatory nature of mathematics, promising many hours of enjoyment."—Paul J. Nahin, author of Will You Be Alive 10 Years from Now?: And Numerous Other Curious Questions in Probability
"A magnificent and curious romp through a wonderful array of mathematical topics and applications: maze creation, Google's PageRank algorithm, doodling, the traveling salesman problem, math on The Simpsons, Fermat's Last Theorem, viral tweets, fractals, and so much more. Buy this book and feed your brain."—Clifford A. Pickover, author of The Math Book
"Math Bytes is a playful and inviting collection of interesting mathematical examples and applications, sometimes in surprising places. Many of these applications are unique or put a new spin on things. The link to computing helps make many of the topics tangible to a general audience."—Matt Lane, creator of the Math Goes Pop! Blog
"Readable and fun. There are few books like this one that engage with mathematics at this level of accessibility and tie into real-world contexts in a humorous yet rigorous way. Math Bytes reinforces the excitement of mathematics and its relevance to modern culture."—Peter McOwan, Queen Mary, University of London





          Resources
      


Chapter 1




      			Introduction to Computational Science: Modeling and Simulation for the Sciences - Second Edition The essential introduction to computational science—now fully updated and expanded

Computational science is an exciting new field at the intersection of the sciences, computer science, and mathematics because much scientific investigation now involves computing as well as theory and experiment. This textbook provides students with a versatile and accessible introduction to the subject. It assumes only a background in high school algebra, enables instructors to follow tailored pathways through the material, and is the only textbook of its kind designed specifically for an introductory course in the computational science and engineering curriculum. While the text itself is generic, an accompanying website offers tutorials and files in a variety of software packages.This fully updated and expanded edition features two new chapters on agent-based simulations and modeling with matrices, ten new project modules, and an additional module on diffusion. Besides increased treatment of high-performance computing and its applications, the book also includes additional quick review questions with answers, exercises, and individual and team projects.The only introductory textbook of its kind—now fully updated and expandedFeatures two new chapters on agent-based simulations and modeling with matricesIncreased coverage of high-performance computing and its applicationsIncludes additional modules, review questions, exercises, and projectsAn online instructor’s manual with exercise answers, selected project solutions, and a test bank and solutions (available only to professors)An online illustration package is available to professors




Angela B. Shiflet is the Larry Hearn McCalla Professor of Mathematics and Computer Science and director of computational science at Wofford College. George W. Shiflet is the Larry Hearn McCalla Professor of Biology at Wofford College.






"The first edition of this book had received very positive feedback and was warmly welcomed by the mathematical community. It is very good news for all us is that the second revised edition is even better!"—Svitlana P. Rogovchenko, Zentralblatt MATH
"Praise for the previous edition: "The heart of Introduction to Computational Science is a collection of modules. Each module is either a discussion of a general computational issue or an investigation of an application. . . . [This book] has been carefully and thoughtfully written with students clearly in mind.""—William J. Satzer, MAA Reviews
"Praise for the previous edition: "Introduction to Computational Science is useful for students and others who want to obtain some of the basic skills of the field. Its impressive collection of projects allows readers to quickly enjoy the power of modern computing as an essential tool in building scientific understanding.""—Wouter van Joolingen, Physics Today
"Praise for the previous edition: "A masterpiece. I know of nothing comparable. I give it five stars.""—James M. Cargal, UMAP Journal
"Praise for the previous edition: "This is an important book with a wonderful collection of examples, models, and references.""—Robert M. Panoff, Shodor Education Foundation
"Praise for the previous edition: "This is a very good introduction to the field of computational science.""—Peter Turner, Clarkson University
"Despite its substantial weight, the book is extremely user friendly. . . . There are many different courses that one could build with this book as foundation, and it is an indispensible resource for anyone seeking to bring modeling projects into their classes."—David M. Bressoud, UMAP Journal





          Resources
      


Table of Contents


Preface


Chapter 1


Chapter 2




      			Agent_Zero: Toward Neurocognitive Foundations for Generative Social Science 

The Final Volume of the Groundbreaking Trilogy on Agent-Based ModelingIn this pioneering synthesis, Joshua Epstein introduces a new theoretical entity: Agent_Zero. This software individual, or “agent,” is endowed with distinct emotional/affective, cognitive/deliberative, and social modules. Grounded in contemporary neuroscience, these internal components interact to generate observed, often far-from-rational, individual behavior. When multiple agents of this new type move and interact spatially, they collectively generate an astonishing range of dynamics spanning the fields of social conflict, psychology, public health, law, network science, and economics.Epstein weaves a computational tapestry with threads from Plato, Hume, Darwin, Pavlov, Smith, Tolstoy, Marx, James, and Dostoevsky, among others. This transformative synthesis of social philosophy, cognitive neuroscience, and agent-based modeling will fascinate scholars and students of every stripe. Epstein’s computer programs are provided in the book or on its Princeton University Press website, along with movies of his “computational parables.?Agent_Zero is a signal departure in what it includes (e.g., a new synthesis of neurally grounded internal modules), what it eschews (e.g., standard behavioral imitation), the phenomena it generates (from genocide to financial panic), and the modeling arsenal it offers the scientific community. For generative social science, Agent_Zero presents a groundbreaking vision and the tools to realize it.




Joshua M. Epstein directs the Center for Advanced Modeling at The Johns Hopkins University, where he is a professor in the Department of Emergency Medicine with joint appointments in the Departments of Applied Mathematics, Economics, International Health, Environmental Health Sciences, Biostatistics, Civil Engineering, and the Institute for Computational Medicine. He is also an external professor at the Santa Fe Institute. This volume forms a trilogy on agent-based modeling, with Growing Artificial Societies: Social Science from the Bottom Up (MIT), with coauthor Robert Axtell, and Generative Social Science: Studies in Agent-Based Computational Modeling (Princeton).






"Agent Zero offers a solution to some of social science's great puzzles. Its behavioral basis is the interplay of emotion, cognition, and network contagion effects. It elegantly explains why so many human actions are so manifestly dysfunctional, and why some are downright evil."—George Akerlof, Nobel Laureate in Economics
"Rarely has a book stimulated me intellectually as much as this one. Particularly exciting is the incorporation of agents who feel (affect) and deliberate, as well as influence one another through social interaction. Epstein is a brilliantly creative scholar and the range of applications showcased here is stunning. In sum, this is a pathbreaking book."—Paul Slovic, University of Oregon
"Joshua Epstein proposes a parsimonious but powerful model of individual behavior that can generate an extraordinary range of group behaviors, including mob violence, manias and financial panics, rebellions, network dynamics, and a host of other complex social phenomena. This is a highly original, beautifully conceived, and important book."—Peyton Young, University of Oxford
"In social science generally and most notably in economics, the rational actor model has long been the benchmark for policy analysis and institutional design. Epstein now offers a worthy alternative: Agent_Zero, a mathematically and computationally tractable agent whose inner workings are grounded in neuroscience. Much like you and me, Agent_Zero is influenced by emotion, reason, and social pressures. Epstein demonstrates that collections of Agent Zeros perform amazingly like real groups, teams, and societies and can therefore serve as the fundamental building blocks for what he calls Generative Social Science. The rational actor now has a true competitor. Agent_Zero is a major advance."—Scott Page, University of Michigan
"This is social science based on how our brains actually work. Epstein's computerized 'agents' can feel passion and fear, and can influence each other emotionally. And when they interact, we see many of the realities of social life, from the dynamics of juries to racist violence to Arab springs. A remarkable and original piece of work."—W. Brian Arthur, Santa Fe Institute


      			Three Views of Logic: Mathematics, Philosophy, and Computer Science The first interdisciplinary textbook to introduce students to three critical areas in applied logic

Demonstrating the different roles that logic plays in the disciplines of computer science, mathematics, and philosophy, this concise undergraduate textbook covers select topics from three different areas of logic: proof theory, computability theory, and nonclassical logic. The book balances accessibility, breadth, and rigor, and is designed so that its materials will fit into a single semester. Its distinctive presentation of traditional logic material will enhance readers’ capabilities and mathematical maturity.The proof theory portion presents classical propositional logic and first-order logic using a computer-oriented (resolution) formal system. Linear resolution and its connection to the programming language Prolog are also treated. The computability component offers a machine model and mathematical model for computation, proves the equivalence of the two approaches, and includes famous decision problems unsolvable by an algorithm. The section on nonclassical logic discusses the shortcomings of classical logic in its treatment of implication and an alternate approach that improves upon it: Anderson and Belnap’s relevance logic. Applications are included in each section. The material on a four-valued semantics for relevance logic is presented in textbook form for the first time.Aimed at upper-level undergraduates of moderate analytical background, Three Views of Logic will be useful in a variety of classroom settings.Gives an exceptionally broad view of logicTreats traditional logic in a modern formatPresents relevance logic with applicationsProvides an ideal text for a variety of one-semester upper-level undergraduate courses




Donald W. Loveland is professor emeritus of computer science at Duke University and the author of Automated Theorem Proving: A Logical Basis. Richard E. Hodel is associate professor emeritus of mathematics at Duke University and the author of An Introduction to Mathematical Logic. S. G. Sterrett is the Curtis D. Gridley Distinguished Professor of History and Philosophy of Science at Wichita State University and the author of Wittgenstein Flies a Kite: A Story of Models of Wings and Models of the World.






"A well-written text with challenging exercises, proofs of important theorems, and a modern integrated approach."—Choice
"The book can serve as material for a course that teaches the role of logic in several disciplines. It can also be used as a supplementary text for a logic course that emphasizes the more traditional topics of logic but wishes to include a few special topics. Moreover, it can be a valuable resource for researchers and academics."—Roman Murawski, Zentralblatt MATH
"It's always interesting to find a text that reimagines, and offers a novel approach to, a fairly standard subject. This book does that for logic. . . . There is a lot of interesting and well-presented material found here that cannot be easily found elsewhere in a book at this level."—Mark Hunacek, Mathematical Association of America blog
"An instructor of a logic course offered by a mathematics department who is interested in some experimentation will undoubtedly find this book quite rewarding. . . . Even an instructor who is not planning to teach a course along these lines, but who is interested in the subject, will want to look at this text; there is a lot of interesting and well-presented material found here that cannot be easily found elsewhere in a book at this level."—Mark Hunacek, MAA blog
"Formal logic should no longer be taught as a course within a single subject area, but should be taught from an interdisciplinary perspective. Three Views of Logic has many fine features and combines materials not found together elsewhere. We have needed an accessible textbook like this one for quite some time."—Hans Halvorson, Princeton University
"This concise, precise, and clear textbook is unique in the range of material covered and the level at which it is written, which is intended for undergraduates. The exercises are a considerable help to the student and the examples are useful and interesting."—David Plaisted, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
"Loveland, Hodel, and Sterrett are all internationally recognized and leading researchers in their field. Their new textbook gives an excellent introduction to the resolution of propositional and first-order predicate logic, and an outstanding overview of computability theory. The examples and exercises are well chosen, and the material is accessible to students without a logic background."—Frank Wolter, University of Liverpool





          Resources
      


Preface


Chapter 1




      			Disrupting Science: Social Movements, American Scientists, and the Politics of the Military, 1945-1975 

In the decades following World War II, American scientists were celebrated for their contributions to social and technological progress. They were also widely criticized for their increasingly close ties to military and governmental power — not only by outside activists but from among the ranks of scientists themselves. Disrupting Science tells the story of how scientists formed new protest organizations that democratized science and made its pursuit more transparent. The book explores how scientists weakened their own authority even as they invented new forms of political action.  Drawing extensively from archival sources and in-depth interviews, Kelly Moore examines the features of American science that made it an attractive target for protesters in the early cold war and Vietnam eras, including scientists’ work in military research and activities perceived as environmentally harmful. She describes the intellectual traditions that protesters drew from — liberalism, moral individualism, and the New Left — and traces the rise and influence of scientist-led protest organizations such as Science for the People and the Union of Concerned Scientists. Moore shows how scientist protest activities disrupted basic assumptions about science and the ways scientific knowledge should be produced, and recast scientists’ relationships to political and military institutions. Disrupting Science reveals how the scientific community cumulatively worked to unbind its own scientific authority and change how science and scientists are perceived. In doing so, the book redefines our understanding of social movements and the power of insider-led protest.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the 2011 Robert K. Merton Book Award, Science, Knowledge, and Technology Section of the American Sociological Association
Honorable Mention for the 2009 Charles Tilly Best Book Award, Collective Behavior and Social Movements Section of the American Sociological Association





Kelly Moore is assistant professor of sociology at the University of Cincinnati.






"In Disrupting Science, Kelly Moore attempts to explain how scientists' attitudes about the proper role of science and scientists in public life changed so dramatically within two generations....Moore's well-researched account introduces the pacifists, petition writers, newsletter publishers, and protestors—who doggedly drew attention to the ways that militarism was infiltrating the practice of science in the United States."—Audra J. Wolfe, Science
"Disrupting Science is an important scholarly addition to the literature in the sociology of science and history of science.  The book's examination of archival sources shows a complex relationship between scientists and the military from 1945 to 1975."—G.D. Oberle, Choice
"The book prompts intriguing questions about the professional role, the boundaries by which it is constituted, and the potential consequences of overstepping those boundaries."—Joseph C. Hermanowicz, American Journal of Sociology
"As the U.S. government's budget for national and homeland security approaches three-quarters of a trillion dollars in fiscal year 2009, and the roles of science and technology continue to expand in our daily lives, our collective need for nuanced studies of the relations between the military and science is ever more pressing. Moore's thoughtful study points the way."—William J. Astore, H-Net Reviews
"Disrupting Science is first rate work. . . . Moore's account serves as an exemplary case study in what she and Scott Frickel have billed in their 2006 book as 'the new political sociology of science.' I expect her new book to be read widely across the discipline."—Steven Epstein, Mobilization
"Moore's book is very well-written, scholarly, and impeccably organized, making it a useful reference tool. It is relevant to those interested in political sociology, the 'fact-value' debate in the philosophy of science, questions of science and ideology, and science studies."—Ronjon Paul Datta, Canadian Journal of Sociology
"Useful for academics studying the history of science and social movements, this book offers an interesting, unique, and insightful look at the role of scientists in challenging the boundaries of their own expertise and positions of influence. From scientists as elite experts to science 'for the people,' this work offers a captivating glimpse as social movement activists among scientists during this time in history."—Chelsea Schelly, Social Science Journal
"Kelly Moore's book is a significant scholarly achievement and will be an important and much-cited work in the sociology and social studies of science. Moore not only advances how we conceive of the politics that scientists engage in, but she also more clearly spells out the protest activities of the 1960s and places science near the center of their concerns."—David H. Guston, author of Between Politics and Science: Assuring the Integrity and Productivity of Research
"This is a truly excellent book by a thoughtful scholar. Moore's theoretical development is compelling and her concepts are of use beyond the empirical terrain she covers in the book. What's more, she shows that it is worth looking at social movements that focus on institutions like science and studying these movements' effects on meanings and orientation, not just policies."—Daniel Lee Kleinman, editor of Science, Technology, and Democracy


      			Neural Networks and Animal Behavior		

How can we make better sense of animal behavior by using what we know about the brain? This is the first book that attempts to answer this important question by applying neural network theory. Scientists create Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) to make models of the brain. These networks mimic the architecture of a nervous system by connecting elementary neuron-like units into networks in which they stimulate or inhibit each other’s activity in much the same way neurons do. This book shows how scientists can employ ANNs to analyze animal behavior, explore the general principles of the nervous systems, and test potential generalizations among species. The authors focus on simple neural networks to show how ANNs can be investigated by math and by computers. They demonstrate intuitive concepts that make the operation of neural networks more accessible to nonspecialists. The first chapter introduces various approaches to animal behavior and provides an informal introduction to neural networks, their history, and their potential advantages. The second chapter reviews artificial neural networks, including biological foundations, techniques, and applications. The following three chapters apply neural networks to such topics as learning and development, classical instrumental condition, and the role of genes in building brain networks. The book concludes by comparing neural networks to other approaches. It will appeal to students of animal behavior in many disciplines. It will also interest neurobiologists, cognitive scientists, and those from other fields who wish to learn more about animal behavior.




Magnus Enquist is Professor of Ethology in the Department of Zoology at Stockholm University. Stefano Ghirlanda is Researcher of General Psychology in the Department of Psychology at the University of Bologna.






"Neural Networks and Animal Behavior will interest students of animal behavior, cognitive scientists, engineers, and anyone working with neural networks. In a real way, this book is a bridge across the disciplines, constructing connections between animal behavior theories to other modes of understanding."—Biology Digest
"This is a timely contribution to the field that should mark a turning point in the use of neural networks in animal behavior research."—Richard Peters, Animal Behaviour
"This book will make a major contribution to the field of animal behavior. The explanations are clear and the math transparent. Anyone who viewed artificial neural networks as mysterious black boxes will have their minds changed."—Michael J. Ryan, University of Texas, Austin
"This book shows how neural net models can improve our understanding of animal behavior. It offers an accessible introduction to the general approach while covering a wide range of topics."—Alasdair Houston, University of Bristol


      			Individual-based Modeling and Ecology		

Individual-based models are an exciting and widely used new tool for ecology. These computational models allow scientists to explore the mechanisms through which population and ecosystem ecology arises from how individuals interact with each other and their environment. This book provides the first in-depth treatment of individual-based modeling and its use to develop theoretical understanding of how ecological systems work, an approach the authors call “individual-based ecology.? Grimm and Railsback start with a general primer on modeling: how to design models that are as simple as possible while still allowing specific problems to be solved, and how to move efficiently through a cycle of pattern-oriented model design, implementation, and analysis. Next, they address the problems of theory and conceptual framework for individual-based ecology: What is “theory”? That is, how do we develop reusable models of how system dynamics arise from characteristics of individuals? What conceptual framework do we use when the classical differential equation framework no longer applies? An extensive review illustrates the ecological problems that have been addressed with individual-based models. The authors then identify how the mechanics of building and using individual-based models differ from those of traditional science, and provide guidance on formulating, programming, and analyzing models. This book will be helpful to ecologists interested in modeling, and to other scientists interested in agent-based modeling.




Volker Grimm is a Senior Researcher at the UFZ Centre for Environmental Research Leipzig-Halle and Lecturer at the University of Potsdam. Steven F. Railsback is a consulting scientist and Adjunct Professor of Mathematics at Humboldt State University.






"The authors establish an effective and coherent framework for using individual-based modelling."—Nikita Y. Ratanov, Mathematical Reviews
"An excellent book, which aims to invigorate individual-based modeling . . .  by providing a clear theoretical framework for the subject—which they term individual-based ecology (IBE)—and a step-by-step guide to creating individual-based models (IBMs) within this framework. . . . I think this is a very timely book, and I recommend it to anyone new or old to the subject."—Richard Stillman, Quarterly Review of Biology
"The book very successfully link[s] various 'universes' ranging from fundamental concepts in ecology and complex systems research to hands-on technical and recipe-like suggestions on how to build a model, illustrated with numerous, well-chosen examples."—Janine Bolliger, Landscape Ecology
"For anyone who wants to know more about and possibly incorporate IBMs in his own research, this book provides plenty of advice and guidance on how to formulate, analyze, and use such models. If IBMs do ultimately reach the potential envisioned by the authors, their seminal book will have done much to contribute to that success."—Jim M. Cushing, Zentralblatt MATH
"This book establishes an effective and coherent conceptual and technical framework for individual-based modeling with the objective to develop and illustrate an approach for addressing how individual behaviors and system dynamics emerge from lower-level traits."—Janine Bolliger, Landscape Ecology
"Given the solid conceptual foundation of the book and the wide range of IBM applications in fish ecology, I think that many fish biologists will find this book very useful and I recommend it warmly."—Geir Huse, Fish and Fisheries
"This seminal book truly deserves to be called the founding text for the growing field of individual-based modeling and the broader program of individual-based ecology. Core procedures and standards for formulating, parameterizing, testing, and communicating such models have long been lacking. Even the basic definitions have been missing. In one stroke, Grimm and Railsback provide all of those things. Thus, individual-based modeling now has a foundation no less firm than the foundation of classical mathematical ecology."—Don DeAngelis, Biological Resources Division, U.S. Geological Survey, and University of Miami; author of Dynamics of Nutrient Cycling and Food Webs


      			Introduction to Modeling Convection in Planets and Stars: Magnetic Field, Density Stratification, Rotation 

This book provides readers with the skills they need to write computer codes that simulate convection, internal gravity waves, and magnetic field generation in the interiors and atmospheres of rotating planets and stars. Using a teaching method perfected in the classroom, Gary Glatzmaier begins by offering a step-by-step guide on how to design codes for simulating nonlinear time-dependent thermal convection in a two-dimensional box using Fourier expansions in the horizontal direction and finite differences in the vertical direction. He then describes how to implement more efficient and accurate numerical methods and more realistic geometries in two and three dimensions. In the third part of the book, Glatzmaier demonstrates how to incorporate more sophisticated physics, including the effects of magnetic field, density stratification, and rotation. Featuring numerous exercises throughout, this is an ideal textbook for students and an essential resource for researchers. Describes how to create codes that simulate the internal dynamics of planets and stars Builds on basic concepts and simple methods Shows how to improve the efficiency and accuracy of the numerical methods Describes more relevant geometries and boundary conditions Demonstrates how to incorporate more sophisticated physics




Gary A. Glatzmaier is professor of earth and planetary sciences at the University of California, Santa Cruz. He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member of the National Academy of Sciences.






"This book provides readers with the skills they need to write computer codes that simulate convection, internal gravity waves and magnetic field generation in the interiors and atmospheres of rotating planets and stars. It is very useful for readers having a basic understanding of classical physics, vector calculus, partial differential equations, and simple computer programming."—Claudia-Veronika Meister, Zentralblatt MATH
"Glatzmaier's work is synonymous with the cutting edge of research in this field, and his tried-and-true presentation has been perfected over many years of teaching. I know of no other book that focuses on computer modeling of convection in planets and stars as this one does. It is an ideal tutorial for graduate students, and will also be of great interest to senior researchers."—James M. Stone, Princeton University
"The computational methods Glatzmaier describes can be applied to a huge range of nonlinear problems, with a variety of physical effects. There is a great deal of potential here for new investigations. In fact, our generation has barely scratched the surface! This is an important message for young scientists, who will find in this book some of the tools they will need to make future advances in astrophysics and geophysics."—Chris A. Jones, University of Leeds
"I am certain that this book will prove to be extremely useful to students and professionals alike. It is engagingly written, timely, comprehensive, and perhaps most importantly, graduated in its approach. Gary Glatzmaier is internationally recognized as one of the best computational scientists in geophysics and astrophysics."—Peter L. Olson, Johns Hopkins University


      			When Computers Were Human		

Before Palm Pilots and iPods, PCs and laptops, the term “computer” referred to the people who did scientific calculations by hand. These workers were neither calculating geniuses nor idiot savants but knowledgeable people who, in other circumstances, might have become scientists in their own right. When Computers Were Human represents the first in-depth account of this little-known, 200-year epoch in the history of science and technology.  Beginning with the story of his own grandmother, who was trained as a human computer, David Alan Grier provides a poignant introduction to the wider world of women and men who did the hard computational labor of science. His grandmother’s casual remark, “I wish I’d used my calculus,” hinted at a career deferred and an education forgotten, a secret life unappreciated; like many highly educated women of her generation, she studied to become a human computer because nothing else would offer her a place in the scientific world.  The book begins with the return of Halley’s comet in 1758 and the effort of three French astronomers to compute its orbit. It ends four cycles later, with a UNIVAC electronic computer projecting the 1986 orbit. In between, Grier tells us about the surveyors of the French Revolution, describes the calculating machines of Charles Babbage, and guides the reader through the Great Depression to marvel at the giant computing room of the Works Progress Administration. When Computers Were Human is the sad but lyrical story of workers who gladly did the hard labor of research calculation in the hope that they might be part of the scientific community. In the end, they were rewarded by a new electronic machine that took the place and the name of those who were, once, the computers.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the 2006 Book Award in Computers/Internet, Independent Publisher Book Awards





David Alan Grier is Associate Professor in the Center for International Science and Technology Policy at George Washington University. His articles on the history of science have appeared in the American Mathematical Monthly, Chance, the Christian Science Monitor, and the Washington Post. He is Editor in Chief of the IEEE Annals of the History of Computing. Long before he learned that his grandmother had been trained as a human computer, he absorbed the methods of programming the electronic computer from his father, who was a scientific computing specialist for the Burroughs Corporation.






"David Alan Grier's recovery of the wonderfully rich story of human computers . . .  ask[s] why human computers were made to disappear in the first place. . . . It is notoriously difficult to recover details of the lives of ordinary people. . . . But Grier triumphantly achieves his aim when discussing the twentieth-century human computer, as many are alive to tell their tales."—Jon Agar, Nature
"Prior to the advent of programmable data-processing electronic devices in the mid-20th century, the word computer was commonly used to describe a person hired to crank out stupefyingly tedious calculations. . . . Human computers have . . .  been largely forgotten, and David Alan Grier . . .  is intent on restoring them to their rightful place in history."—Ann Finkbeiner, Discover
"When Computers Were Human is a detailed and fascinating look at a world I had not even known existed."—James Fallows, National Correspondent, Atlantic Monthly
"The strength of this book is its breadth of research and its human touch. . . .  [A] well written, informative and enjoyable work."—Amy Shell-Gellasch, MAA Reviews
"Overall, this book provides a wonderful survey of human computing from 1682 onward. . . . I recommend this book to all historians of computing, both professional and amateur."—Jonathan P. Bowen, IEEE Annals of the History of Computing
"When Computers Were Human is a detailed and fascinating look at a world I had not even known existed. After reading these accounts of ingenuity, determination, and true creative breakthrough, readers will look at today's computer-based society in an entirely different way."—James Fallows, National Correspondent, Atlantic Monthly
"How did the lives of people and the lives of numbers become so intimately entwined? David Alan Grier's authoritative, engaging, and richly detailed account of this neglected chapter in the history (and prehistory) of computing abounds with remarkable characters, sheds long-awaited light on their achievements, and could not have been better told."—George Dyson, author of Darwin among the Machines
"The story of computation before the invention of the computer is an important one—one that has not been told in this way before. This narrative grabs you right from the first page. Grier tells the human story behind some of the greatest scientific accomplishments, and tells it in a very readable way."—Michael R. Williams, Head Curator, Computer History Museum
"The history of the electronic computer has become the topic of a fair amount of scholarly work, and yet the wonderful story of the (collective) human computer has barely been noticed. This book will appeal both to an appreciable range of scholars and to more general readers. The style is pleasant and informal; the mathematics, accessible and interesting."—Theodore M. Porter, author of Trust in Numbers: The Pursuit of Objectivity in Science and Public Life


      			The Golden Ticket: P, NP, and the Search for the Impossible The computer science problem whose solution could transform life as we know it

The P-NP problem is the most important open problem in computer science, if not all of mathematics. Simply stated, it asks whether every problem whose solution can be quickly checked by computer can also be quickly solved by computer. The Golden Ticket provides a nontechnical introduction to P-NP, its rich history, and its algorithmic implications for everything we do with computers and beyond. Lance Fortnow traces the history and development of P-NP, giving examples from a variety of disciplines, including economics, physics, and biology. He explores problems that capture the full difficulty of the P-NP dilemma, from discovering the shortest route through all the rides at Disney World to finding large groups of friends on Facebook. The Golden Ticket explores what we truly can and cannot achieve computationally, describing the benefits and unexpected challenges of this compelling problem.

Awards and Recognition

One of Amazon.com’s 2013 Best Science Books
One of Choice's Outstanding Academic Titles for 2013
Honorable Mention for the 2013 PROSE Award in Popular Science & Mathematics, Association of American Publishers





Lance Fortnow is professor and chair of the School of Computer Science at Georgia Institute of Technology and the founder and coauthor of the Computational Complexity blog.











"As Fortnow describes. . . P versus NP is ‘one of the great open problems in all of mathematics' not only because it is extremely difficult to solve but because it has such obvious practical applications. It is the dream of total ease, of the confidence that there is an efficient way to calculate nearly everything, ‘from cures to deadly diseases to the nature of the universe,' even ‘an algorithmic process to recognize greatness.'. . . To postulate that P ≠ NP, as Fortnow does, is to allow for a world of mystery, difficulty, and frustration—but also of discovery and inquiry, of pleasures pleasingly delayed."—Alexander Nazaryan, New Yorker
"Fortnow effectively initiates readers into the seductive mystery and importance of P and NP problems."—Publishers Weekly
"Fortnow's book is just the ticket for bringing one of the major theoretical problems of our time to the level of the average citizen—and yes, that includes elected officials."—Veit Elser, Science
"Without bringing formulas or computer code into the narrative, Fortnow sketches the history of this class of questions, convincingly demonstrates their surprising equivalence, and reveals some of the most far-reaching implications that a proof of P = NP would bring about. These might include tremendous advances in biotechnology (for instance, more cures for cancer), information technology, and even the arts. Verdict: Through story and analogy, this relatively slim volume manages to provide a thorough, accessible explanation of a deep mathematical question and its myriad consequences. An engaging, informative read for a broad audience."—J.J.S. Boyce, Library Journal
"A provocative reminder of the real-world consequences of a theoretical enigma."—Booklist
"The definition of this problem is tricky and technical, but in The Golden Ticket, Lance Fortnow cleverly sidesteps the issue with a boiled-down version. P is the collection of problems we can solve quickly, NP is the collection of problems we would like to solve. If P = NP, computers can answer all the questions we pose and our world is changed forever. It is an oversimplification, but Fortnow, a computer scientist at Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, knows his stuff and aptly illustrates why NP problems are so important."—Jacob Aron, New Scientist
"Fortnow's book does a fine job of showing why the tantalizing question is an important one, with implications far beyond just computer science."—Rob Hardy, Commercial Dispatch
"A great book. . . . [Lance Fortnow] has written precisely the book about P vs. NP that the interested layperson or IT professional wants and needs."—Scott Aaronson, Shtetl-Optimized blog
"[The Golden Ticket] is a book on a technical subject aimed at a general audience. . . . Lance's mix of technical accuracy with evocative story telling works."—Michael Trick, Michael Trick's Operations Research Blog
"Thoroughly researched and reviewed. Anyone from a smart high school student to a computer scientist is sure to get a lot of this book. The presentation is beautiful. There are few formulas but lots of facts."—Daniel Lemire's Blog
"An entertaining discussion of the P versus NP problem."—Andrew Binstock, Dr. Dobb's
"The Golden Ticketis an extremely accessible and enjoyable treatment of the most important question of theoretical computer science, namely whether P is equal to NP."—Choice
"The book is accessible and useful for practically anyone from smart high school students to specialists. . . . [P]erhaps the interest sparked by this book will be the 'Golden Ticket' for further accessible work in this area. And perhaps P=NP will start to become as famous as E=mc2."—Michael Trick, INFORMS Journal of Computing
"In any case, it is excellent to have a nontechnical book about the P versus NP question. The Golden Ticket offers an inspiring introduction for nontechnical readers to what is surely the most important open problem in computer science."—Leslie Ann Goldberg, LMS Newsletter
"The Golden Ticket does a good job of explaining a complex concept in terms that a secondary-school student will understand—a hard problem in its own right, even if not quite NP."—Physics World
"[The Golden Ticket] is fun to read and can be fully appreciated without any knowledge in (theoretical) computer science. Fortnow's efforts to make the difficult material accessible to non-experts should be commended."—Andreas Maletti, Zentralblatt MATH
"This is a fabulous book for both educators and students at the secondary school level and above. It does not require any particular mathematical knowledge but, rather, the ability to think. Enjoy the world of abstract ideas as you experience an intriguing journey through mathematical thinking."—Gail Kaplan, Mathematics Teacher
"Fortnow's book provides much of the background and personal information on the main characters involved in this problem—notably Steven Cook, with a cameo appearance by Kurt Gödel—that one does not get in the more technical treatments. There is a lot of information in this book, and the serious computer science student is sure to learn from it."—James M. Cargal, UMAP Journal
"You will love this book. It's completely accessible and captures the thrill, potential, and heartbreak of an edgy mathematical problem in terms that nonmathematicians will appreciate. After readingThe Golden Ticket, I sort of hope P isn't NP after all."—Vint Cerf, Internet Pioneer
"The P-NP problem is fundamental to computer science, and indeed all of mathematics. This book presents an engaging exposition of the problem, its history, and importance. In the process, it touches on major topics appearing in university computer science courses, all presented in an amusing style requiring no background in mathematics beyond the ability to solve Sudoku puzzles. I highly recommend it."—Stephen Cook, formulator of the P-NP problem
"This book, written by a world-class master of the field, is a grand tour of the most celebrated and profound unsolved problem in computer science. Fortnow's many ingenious explanations make the mysteries of computational complexity accessible to anyone interested in the fundamental questions: what can be computed and how fast can we compute it?"—John MacCormick, author of Nine Algorithms That Changed the Future
"This book is meticulous. Fortnow has really tracked down the history and background of this important and timely subject. Even complexity theorists will benefit from his fine scholarship. The Golden Ticket is the first of its kind—a book for general readers about complexity theory."—William Gasarch, University of Maryland
"Nobody explains the importance of the P-NP problem better than Fortnow."—William J. Cook, author of In Pursuit of the Traveling Salesman: Mathematics at the Limits of Computation


      			Coding Freedom: The Ethics and Aesthetics of Hacking 

Who are computer hackers? What is free software? And what does the emergence of a community dedicated to the production of free and open source software — and to hacking as a technical, aesthetic, and moral project — reveal about the values of contemporary liberalism? Exploring the rise and political significance of the free and open source software (F/OSS) movement in the United States and Europe, Coding Freedom details the ethics behind hackers’ devotion to F/OSS, the social codes that guide its production, and the political struggles through which hackers question the scope and direction of copyright and patent law. In telling the story of the F/OSS movement, the book unfolds a broader narrative involving computing, the politics of access, and intellectual property. E. Gabriella Coleman tracks the ways in which hackers collaborate and examines passionate manifestos, hacker humor, free software project governance, and festive hacker conferences. Looking at the ways that hackers sustain their productive freedom, Coleman shows that these activists, driven by a commitment to their work, reformulate key ideals including free speech, transparency, and meritocracy, and refuse restrictive intellectual protections. Coleman demonstrates how hacking, so often marginalized or misunderstood, sheds light on the continuing relevance of liberalism in online collaboration.

Awards and Recognition

One of Choice's Outstanding Academic Titles for 2013





E. Gabriella Coleman is the Wolfe Chair in Scientific and Technological Literacy in the Department of Art History and Communication Studies at McGill University.






"Coding Freedom is insightful and fascinating, a superbly observed picture of the motives, divisions and history of the free software and software freedom world."—Cory Doctorow, BoingBoing
"Anyone who thinks about programmers, open source, online communities, or the politics of intellectual property should have a copy of Coding Freedom on the shelf. It is an invaluable portrait of how free-software coders work, individually and collectively."—James Grimmelmann, Jotwell
"The hacker ethic may be peculiar to outsiders. But it stems from a deep commitment to justice, fairness, and freedom. Anthropologist Gabriella Coleman describes in her phenomenal book Coding Freedom how hacker ethic gets encoded into both technical and political practice."—Danah Boyd, Wired
"Though occasionally she uses academic jargon, her book is an intriguing read and connects the dots. . . . Reading this book will help you to understand the conflict, as well as hacker culture."—David Hutchinson, io9.com
"[S]triking and important. . . . Coleman has captured a great deal of the essential spirit of the free- and open-software movement. . . . I strongly suggest that you buy a copy of the book."—John Gilbey, Times Higher Education
"[I]t is well-written and the analyses really get to the heart of some deeply ethical questions about individual, group and political relationships in voluntary groups which are rarely considered in such detail."—John R. Hudson, Briefing Bradford
"This work by Coleman is at once history, ethnography, cultural criticism, and storytelling. . . . Once can read the book as a narrative of the free software and open source movements, or as a sympathetic description of the behavior norms of hackers. . . . Some readers will likely not consider hackers' aesthetic appreciation of good or clever coding as beauty, nor hackers' humor as funny, but these are Coleman's courageous attempts to provide a rounded depiction of this subculture. This book seems likely to be one of the defining works of cultural anthropology."—Choice
"Coding Freedom is a persuasive piece of writing that tackles some of the questions central to the current political climate."—Sebastian Kubitschko, Culture Machine
"Coding Freedom is an important analysis of F/OSS that offers deep ethnographic detail and creates a complex appreciation of this phenomenon. Coleman is also able to take this rich detail and extend it into the ethics and politics of F/OSS, connecting internal community principles to wider political effects, of which she provides a unique analysis. This book is compulsory reading for anyone interested in the cultural and social meaning of F/OSS and will powerfully repay anyone interested in the nature of ethics and society in the 21st century."—Tim Jordan, American Journal of Sociology
"Coleman knows, understands, and lives free culture. No one is more credible or more fascinating when describing the lives of the women and men whose mission is an open, free information age."—Cory Doctorow, author of Little Brother and coauthor of The Rapture of the Nerds
"Coleman's book is definitive—everything in it is lovingly detailed, exhaustively researched, fluently written, and packed with provocative insights. A monument of scholarship, it combines the best of anthropology with an unconventional and fresh approach to law, political theory, and ethics. From the conference-going world of software programmers to the humor and pleasures of code-fu, and from the phantasms of free speech to the passion and pathos of technical committees, Coleman is an extraordinary guide to the world of contemporary hacking."—Christopher Kelty, University of California, Los Angeles
"Coleman's book on free and open source software programmers and hackers is desperately needed and will be a significant, landmark contribution to our understanding of the current technologically mediated moment. Coleman mixes case studies with learned treatments of this community, changes in the legal environment, and other relevant dimensions."—Thomas M. Malaby, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
"This is a revelatory ethnographic look at the origins and evolution of the free and open source software subculture. Coleman provides entirely new insights into the humor, aesthetics, and social life of hackers, while exploring the philosophical implications of open source for ideas about personal freedom, labor, and markets. Coding Freedom is an essential study of the technological revolution of our times."—Joseph Masco, University of Chicago


      			Trapped in the Net: The Unanticipated Consequences of Computerization 

Voice mail. E-mail. Bar codes. Desktops. Laptops. Networks. The Web. In this exciting book, Gene Rochlin takes a closer look at how these familiar and pervasive productions of computerization have become embedded in all our lives, forcing us to narrow the scope of our choices, our modes of control, and our experiences with the real world. Drawing on fascinating narratives from fields that range from military command, air traffic control, and international fund transfers to library cataloging and supermarket checkouts, Rochlin shows that we are rapidly making irreversible and at times harmful changes in our business, social, and personal lives to comply with the formalities and restrictions of information systems. The threat is not the direct one once framed by the idea of insane robots or runaway mainframes usurping human functions for their own purposes, but the gradual loss of control over hardware, software, and function through networks of interconnection and dependence. What Rochlin calls the computer trap has four parts: the lure, the snare, the costs, and the long-term consequences. The lure is obvious: the promise of ever more powerful and adaptable tools with simpler and more human-centered interfaces. The snare is what usually ensues. Once heavily invested in the use of computers to perform central tasks, organizations and individuals alike are committed to new capacities and potentials, whether they eventually find them rewarding or not. The varied costs include a dependency on the manufacturers of hardware and software — and a seemingly pathological scramble to keep up with an incredible rate of sometimes unnecessary technological change. Finally, a lack of redundancy and an incredible speed of response make human intervention or control difficult at best when (and not if) something goes wrong. As Rochlin points out, this is particularly true for those systems whose interconnections and mechanisms are so deeply concealed in the computers that no human being fully understands them.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the 1999 Don K. Price Award, Science, Technology and Environmental Politics Section of the American Political Science Association
One of Choice's Outstanding Academic Titles for 1997





Gene I. Rochlin is Professor of Energy and Resources at the University of California, Berkeley. He has been the recipient of a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Individual Fellowship for Research and Writing in International Security and of a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship.






"In Trapped in the Net, an insightful and painstakingly documented book, [Rochlin] explores the changes already wrought by computers and networking in areas as diverse as financial markets, air travel, nuclear power plants, corporate management and the military."—Lawrence Hunter, The New York Times Book Review
"Trapped in the Net covers not only the military, but also financial markets, aviation and business. In all cases, humans working inside organizations become helpless just when the systems they use encounter the unexpected and start behaving idiotically. This is a fascinating and well-argued book. . . . The references are good, and certainly prove that Rochlin is not a lone voice with a cynical message."—Harold Thimbleby, New Scientist
"[Rochlin's] straightforward argument should be apparent to those managing and promoting increasing computerization: that greater dependence on computers implies greater disaster when they fail. . . . Rochlin ends with an exploration of the new cyberized military and continues to pinpoint the unintended consequences that computer enthusiasts rarely think about, but should."—Booklist
".[C]omputerization is leading us into pretty dire straits. In financial markets, warp-speed automated trading creates opportunities for fraud and moves us further away from a stable investment climate. In the office, computers promise efficiency, but bring fragmented knowledge and reduced autonomy to workers. There's worse news. Pilots in the 'glass cockpits' of modern airplanes have too much data to interpret, and nuclear power plant operators are less likely to have an intuitive feel for things going wrong 'on the floor'. Most sobering of all is the discussion of automation and the military."—Publishers Weekly


      			On the Future: Prospects for Humanity A provocative and inspiring look at the future of humanity and science from world-renowned scientist and bestselling author Martin Rees













 
Humanity has reached a critical moment. Our world is unsettled and rapidly changing, and we face existential risks over the next century. Various outcomes—good and bad—are possible. Yet our approach to the future is characterized by short-term thinking, polarizing debates, alarmist rhetoric, and pessimism. In this short, exhilarating book, renowned scientist and bestselling author Martin Rees argues that humanity’s prospects depend on our taking a very different approach to planning for tomorrow.The future of humanity is bound to the future of science and hinges on how successfully we harness technological advances to address our challenges. If we are to use science to solve our problems while avoiding its dystopian risks, we must think rationally, globally, collectively, and optimistically about the long term. Advances in biotechnology, cybertechnology, robotics, and artificial intelligence—if pursued and applied wisely—could empower us to boost the developing and developed world and overcome the threats humanity faces on Earth, from climate change to nuclear war. At the same time, further advances in space science will allow humans to explore the solar system and beyond with robots and AI. But there is no “Plan B” for Earth—no viable alternative within reach if we do not care for our home planet.Rich with fascinating insights into cutting-edge science and technology, this accessible book will captivate anyone who wants to understand the critical issues that will define the future of humanity on Earth and beyond.

Awards and Recognition

One of the Financial Times' Best Books of 2018: Science





Martin Rees is Astronomer Royal, and has been Master of Trinity College and Director of the Institute of Astronomy at Cambridge University. As a member of the UK’s House of Lords and former President of the Royal Society, he is much involved in international science and issues of technological risk. His books include Our Cosmic Habitat (Princeton), Just Six Numbers, and Our Final Hour (published in the UK as Our Final Century). He lives in Cambridge, UK. Twitter @lordmartinrees









































"This little gem is divided into four beautifully-crafted chapters providing broad perspective, personal anecdotes, some seldom-mined historical background, strong scientific emphasis, and hope."—Bruce L. Dietrich, Planetarian
"On the Future, by a leading senior scientist and written in a charming and crystalline style, provides the kind of wisdom humanity most needs to make our way on through the twenty-first century."—Edward O. Wilson, professor emeritus, Harvard University 
“Curious about the future? Here, one of the world’s most eminent scientists takes you through what will happen and why. On the Future is excellent!”—Eric Schmidt, former executive chairman of Google
“From climate change to biotech to artificial intelligence, science sits at the center of nearly all decisions that civilization confronts to assure its own survival. Martin Rees has created a primer on these issues, and what we can do about them, so that the next generation will think of us not as reckless custodians of their inheritance, but as brilliant shepherds of their birthright.”—Neil deGrasse Tyson, coauthor of Welcome to the Universe
"Martin Rees offers a compelling vision of our future—on Earth and in space."—Elon Musk, founder, CEO, and CTO of SpaceX and cofounder and CEO of Tesla Motors
“Prophecy may be a lost art, but I can think of no better way to envision what lies ahead than this book—a multidimensional meditation by one of our most distinguished and wise scientific minds on where we are headed and what we can do to right the ship of our civilization. In a time when it is hard to find a dream of the future that is not dystopian, Martin Rees sees and writes with rigor, clarity, and hope.”—Ann Druyan, writer, producer, and director of Cosmos 
"In clear and simple prose, Martin Rees lays bare the catastrophic dangers now facing humanity: nuclear, biotech, cyber, and climate. Modern science, he says, created these dangers but still provides the only path forward. A real wake-up call."—Jerry Brown, governor of California
“On the Future is a very important book that should be widely read and acted upon. Martin Rees combines his deep scientific insights and compassion for humanity’s welfare to address, in clear and elegant prose, the major issues facing human civilization today, some of which are not now commonly considered. Whether or not you agree with all the points he makes, you must take them very seriously indeed.”—Roger Penrose, author of Fashion, Faith, and Fantasy in the New Physics of the Universe
"An engaging analysis of the most important issues facing the world, sprinkled with insight and suffused with wisdom and humanity."—Steven Pinker, author of Enlightenment Now
“Are we heading for a utopian or dystopian future? Martin Rees believes it’s down to us. But the one thing we must not do is put the brakes on technology. Science, applied wisely, offers humanity a bright future, but we must act now. In this visionary book, and despite his many fears, Rees adopts a refreshing and cautiously optimistic tone.”—Jim Al-Khalili, author of Paradox: The Nine Greatest Enigmas in Physics
“A breathtaking journey through thrilling advances in science and technology that may address society’s most vexing challenges, On the Future is ideal reading for all citizens of the twenty-first century."—Marcia K. McNutt, president of the National Academy of Sciences
"What if we got one of the smartest people alive to figure the odds on how we might be able to survive our ability to do ourselves in? We have that person in Martin Rees, and his thoughtful answers in this book."—Alan Alda
“As Yogi Berra said, ‘It’s tough to make predictions, especially about the future.’ But in this readable and thought-provoking book, Martin Rees shows the challenges we and our planet face—and why scientists need to engage citizens in the choices that are made.”—Shirley M. Malcom, director of education and human resources programs at the American Association for the Advancement of Science
“For anyone who wants to consider the choices we have in our future and the implications of those choices, this is the book to read. Rees is a clear thinker and graceful writer, and he expresses an encouraging optimism about the future, if we can avoid some of our current species-limiting behaviors. Rees’s projections are grounded in today’s scientific knowledge and a scientist’s sense of probability and presented with a deep sense of humility.”—Rush D. Holt, CEO of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and former U.S. Representative from New Jersey
“On the Future is a delightful intellectual treat and a must-read for everyone on Earth—and beyond, if aliens exist. With wisdom and originality, Martin Rees, our most accomplished living astronomer, addresses the most important of subjects—the future of humanity and the scientific advances and risks it brings. His deep personal insights are unique and exciting and his many anecdotes are enjoyable. I couldn’t put it down.”—Abraham Loeb, Harvard University 
“In this outstanding book, the always brilliant Martin Rees addresses the key problems of our day, putting humanity’s perils and prospects in perspective—from climate change, to the future of artificial intelligence, to the threat of bioterrorism, to the chance for future space adventurers to spread out into the universe. Rees is one of the deepest and clearest thinkers on these subjects, and his book sparkles with gems of insight and humor.”—J. Richard Gott, coauthor of Welcome to the Universe
“In this short and mighty book, Rees grapples with the exhilarating promise and frightening possibilities of today’s vast scientific advancements, situating himself somewhere between the techno-optimists and dystopian naysayers. On the Future provides tremendous insight into science’s great expanse and beseeches us all to get involved and advocate for long-term policies that will keep future generations safe. The future of humanity and the planet rests in our hands.”—Rachel Bronson, president and CEO of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists
“On the Future will captivate readers. Martin Rees stands at the top of our informed thinkers about futurology.”—Pedro G. Ferreira, author of The Perfect Theory: A Century of Geniuses and the Battle over General Relativity
"This inspiring and thought-provoking book by one of the world's leading scientists and visionaries is a must-read for anyone who cares about the future of humanity."—Max Tegmark, author of Life 3.0: Being Human in the Age of Artificial Intelligence
“Our planet is in peril—and humanity needs huge doses of wisdom to save it. Fortunately, one man, Martin Rees, can provide it. This book is a must-read for all who care about our planet’s future.”—Kishore Mahbubani, author of Has the West Lost It?
“Martin Rees’s book is a vital compass to help us navigate the future, an enthralling love letter to knowledge and rationality, and a call to arms for those of us who dare to hope for the best.”—David Puttnam, film producer and educator
"Martin Rees's On the Future is a template of hope that offers practical scientific, social, and political solutions for avoiding man-made disasters that could devastate our species.”—Michael Wilson, film producer


      			Information Science		

From cell phones to Web portals, advances in information and communications technology have thrust society into an information age that is far-reaching, fast-moving, increasingly complex, and yet essential to modern life. Now, renowned scholar and author David Luenberger has produced Information Science, a text that distills and explains the most important concepts and insights at the core of this ongoing revolution. The book represents the material used in a widely acclaimed course offered at Stanford University.  Drawing concepts from each of the constituent subfields that collectively comprise information science, Luenberger builds his book around the five “E’s” of information: Entropy, Economics, Encryption, Extraction, and Emission. Each area directly impacts modern information products, services, and technology — everything from word processors to digital cash, database systems to decision making, marketing strategy to spread spectrum communication.  To study these principles is to learn how English text, music, and pictures can be compressed, how it is possible to construct a digital signature that cannot simply be copied, how beautiful photographs can be sent from distant planets with a tiny battery, how communication networks expand, and how producers of information products can make a profit under difficult market conditions.  The book contains vivid examples, illustrations, exercises, and points of historic interest, all of which bring to life the analytic methods presented:  Presents a unified approach to the field of information science   Emphasizes basic principles   Includes a wide range of examples and applications   Helps students develop important new skills   Suggests exercises with solutions in an instructor’s manual

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the 2006 Award for Best Professional/Scholarly Book in Computer & Information Science, Association of American Publishers





David G. Luenberger is Professor in the Department of Management Science and Engineering at Stanford University.






"This is a fascinating and enjoyable book to read. It is clear throughout the book that David Luenberger is an experienced teacher who has put careful thought into his writing. He wrote and uses this book for a course in the Dept. of Engineering—Economic Systems and Operations Research at Stanford University. The students range from sophomores to graduate students, and the book is very readable for students at all of these levels."—Susan Kelly, The UMAP Journal
"This original, integrative book is a tour de force, unique in content and presentation. The author has achieved the goal that all academics should strive for: the ability to develop and explain complex ideas in the simplest way without compromising theory or being simplistic."—Sharan Jagpal, Rutgers University


      			A First Course in Scientific Computing: Symbolic, Graphic, and Numeric Modeling Using Maple, Java, Mathematica, and Fortran90 

This book offers a new approach to introductory scientific computing. It aims to make students comfortable using computers to do science, to provide them with the computational tools and knowledge they need throughout their college careers and into their professional careers, and to show how all the pieces can work together. Rubin Landau introduces the requisite mathematics and computer science in the course of realistic problems, from energy use to the building of skyscrapers to projectile motion with drag. He is attentive to how each discipline uses its own language to describe the same concepts and how computations are concrete instances of the abstract.  Landau covers the basics of computation, numerical analysis, and programming from a computational science perspective. The first part of the printed book uses the problem-solving environment Maple as its context, with the same material covered on the accompanying CD as both Maple and Mathematica programs; the second part uses the compiled language Java, with equivalent materials in Fortran90 on the CD; and the final part presents an introduction to LaTeX replete with sample files.  Providing the essentials of computing, with practical examples, A First Course in Scientific Computing adheres to the principle that science and engineering students learn computation best while sitting in front of a computer, book in hand, in trial-and-error mode. Not only is it an invaluable learning text and an essential reference for students of mathematics, engineering, physics, and other sciences, but it is also a consummate model for future textbooks in computational science and engineering courses. A broad spectrum of computing tools and examples that can be used throughout an academic career  Practical computing aimed at solving realistic problems  Both symbolic and numerical computations  A multidisciplinary approach: science + math + computer science  Maple and Java in the book itself; Mathematica, Fortran90, Maple and Java on the accompanying CD in an interactive workbook format 

Awards and Recognition

Rubin H. Landau, Winner of the 2006 Undergraduate Computational Engineering and Sciences Award, The Krell Institute
One of Choice's Outstanding Academic Titles for 2005





Rubin H. Landau is Distinguished Professor of Physics and Director of the Computational Physics Program at Oregon State University. He is the lead author of Computational Physics: Problem Solving with Computers; A Scientist's and Engineer's Guide to Workstations and Supercomputers; and Quantum Mechanics II: A Second Course in Quantum Theory.






"Essential. . . . Rubin Landau offers a practical introduction to the world of scientific computing or numerical analysis. He introduces not only the concepts of numerical analysis, but also more importantly the tools that can be used to perform scientific computing. . . . The presentation is particularly useful because real-life examples with real code and results are included."—Choice
"Not only is [this book] an invaluable learning text and an essential reference for students of mathematics, engineering, physics, and other sciences, but it is also a consummate model for future textbooks in computational science and engineering courses."—Mathematical Reviews
"The contents can be taught in lab-based courses at the undergraduate level. Much of the material covered is usually addressed in separate books. Therefore, the book is also suitable for independent study by graduate students and professional who wish to learn one or more of the languages in a comprehensive way with the emphasis kept on problem-solving."—Frits Agterberg, Computers and Geosciences
"The colloquial and tutorial approach might help alleviate the many practical problems associated with incorporating computational applications into a more traditional lecture environment. The text provides many concrete and programming examples in action and illustrates how much you can accomplish with a few well-chosen tools. . . . [S]tudents impressed with the text's workbook style and reference book quality will add it to their bookshelves and return to it often."—Michael Jay Schillaci, IEEE Computing in Science and Engineering
"This book fills an important niche for the undergraduate by providing a well-organized, well-written introduction to a subject usually addressed in books for graduate students. Its problem-based approach to programming in Maple and Java, using common physics problems in a multitude of areas such as mechanisms, electromagnetism, and relativity, is very effective method of instruction."—Gregory Moses, University of Wisconsin-Madison
"This easy-to-follow book is novel in being a hands-on workbook rather than a standard textbook. Importantly, it integrates scientific examples with a discussion of programming techniques and algorithm design. By having the student read it while sitting down at the computer, it offers immediate feedback. It is also unusual in using and comparing two very different approaches, Maple and Java."—Jan Tobochnik, Kalamazoo College, coauthor of An Introduction to Computer Simulation Methods and Editor of the American Journal of Physics


      			A Survey of Computational Physics: Introductory Computational Science 

Computational physics is a rapidly growing subfield of computational science, in large part because computers can solve previously intractable problems or simulate natural processes that do not have analytic solutions. The next step beyond Landau’s First Course in Scientific Computing and a follow-up to Landau and Páez’s Computational Physics, this text presents a broad survey of key topics in computational physics for advanced undergraduates and beginning graduate students, including new discussions of visualization tools, wavelet analysis, molecular dynamics, and computational fluid dynamics. By treating science, applied mathematics, and computer science together, the book reveals how this knowledge base can be applied to a wider range of real-world problems than computational physics texts normally address.          Designed for a one- or two-semester course, A Survey of Computational Physics will also interest anyone who wants a reference on or practical experience in the basics of computational physics. Accessible to advanced undergraduates  Real-world problem-solving approach  Java codes and applets integrated with text  Companion Web site includes videos of lectures 

Awards and Recognition

Rubin H. Landau, Winner of the 2008 Undergraduate Computational Engineering and Sciences Awards, The Krell Institute





Rubin H. Landau is professor of physics and director of the computational physics program at Oregon State University. Manuel José Páez is professor of physics at Universidad de Antioquia in Colombia. Cristian C. Bordeianu, a PhD candidate at University of Bucharest, is vice principal at Technological High School 1 in Suceava, Romania.






"Landau and Piez, authors of Computational Physics, have teamed up with Bordeianu to create an expanded work on introductory computational physics. Even more comprehensive than the first book, this volume contains up-to-date treatments of many new topics at the forefront of the field. . . . This volume offers everything needed for a graduate or undergraduate computational physics course."—K.D. Fisher, Choice
"In addition to being an excellent undergraduate textbook, A Survey of Computational Physics will be useful to scientists wanting a good reference on basic computational modeling methods."—John W. Mintmire, Oklahoma State University
"This book is a welcome addition to the existing literature on the subject. It is needed as much for its pedagogical approach to computational thinking as for its choice of topics in computational physics. Its use of Java as the main programming language brings it up to date with the skills that the new generation of students will bring to class."—Ali Eskandarian, George Washington University


      			Computational Economics		

The ability to conceptualize an economic problem verbally, to formulate it as a mathematical model, and then represent the mathematics in software so that the model can be solved on a computer is a crucial skill for economists. Computational Economics contains well-known models — and some brand-new ones — designed to help students move from verbal to mathematical to computational representations in economic modeling. The authors’ focus, however, is not just on solving the models, but also on developing the ability to modify them to reflect one’s interest and point of view. The result is a book that enables students to be creative in developing models that are relevant to the economic problems of their times.  Unlike other computational economics textbooks, this book is organized around economic topics, among them macroeconomics, microeconomics, and finance. The authors employ various software systems — including MATLAB, Mathematica, GAMS, the nonlinear programming solver in Excel, and the database systems in Access — to enable students to use the most advantageous system. The book progresses from relatively simple models to more complex ones, and includes appendices on the ins and outs of running each program. The book is intended for use by advanced undergraduates and professional economists and even, as a first exposure to computational economics, by graduate students.  Organized by economic topics   Progresses from simple to more complex models   Includes instructions on numerous software systems   Encourages customization and creativity




David A. Kendrick is the Yarborough Centennial Professor of Liberal Arts at the University of Texas at Austin. P. Ruben Mercado is Visiting Professor at the University of Texas at Austin. Hans M. Amman is Professor of Computational Economics and Finance at the Technical University of Eindhoven in the Netherlands.






"Important and useful. . . . [T]his book represents an excellent way to learn computational economics, doing it."—Pietro Terna, Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation
"The book succeeds perfectly at enhancing the creativity and productivity of students in economics and related fields by clearly circumventing the traditional approach. The problems presented will attract the students' attention and provide motivation for further work."—Manfred Gilli, University of Geneva, Switzerland
"Computational Economics is a pioneering textbook by the world leaders in the field."—Alan S. Manne, Stanford University


      			Dynamic Models in Biology		

From controlling disease outbreaks to predicting heart attacks, dynamic models are increasingly crucial for understanding biological processes. Many universities are starting undergraduate programs in computational biology to introduce students to this rapidly growing field. In Dynamic Models in Biology, the first text on dynamic models specifically written for undergraduate students in the biological sciences, ecologist Stephen Ellner and mathematician John Guckenheimer teach students how to understand, build, and use dynamic models in biology.


Developed from a course taught by Ellner and Guckenheimer at Cornell University, the book is organized around biological applications, with mathematics and computing developed through case studies at the molecular, cellular, and population levels. The authors cover both simple analytic models — the sort usually found in mathematical biology texts — and the complex computational models now used by both biologists and mathematicians.


Linked to a Web site with computer-lab materials and exercises, Dynamic Models in Biology is a major new introduction to dynamic models for students in the biological sciences, mathematics, and engineering.




Stephen P. Ellner is Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Cornell University. He has published numerous papers on subjects from measles epidemics to bumblebee behavior, in publications including Science and Nature. John Guckenheimer is Professor of Mathematics at Cornell University. He is the coauthor of Nonlinear Oscillations, Dynamical Systems, and Bifurcations of Vector Fields.







"What is remarkable about Dynamic Models in Biology is that it truly speaks to students of biological sciences. It puts biology first, and then tries to explain how mathematical tools can explain biological phenomena. Nothing else I've seen does this anywhere near as well. The authors have combined their experience to produce and excellent textbook."—Bill Satzer, MAA Reviews
"This is a great book and I expect that it will play an important role in the teaching of mathematical biology and the development of the next generation of mathematical biologists for many years to come."—Marc Mangel, SIAM Review
"Dynamic Models in Biology stands apart from existing textbooks in mathematical biology largely because of its interdisciplinary approach and its hands-on, project-oriented case studies and computer laboratories. In an effort to explore biology in more detail, the authors bravely chose a style that differs from the classical biomath texts . . . whose focus is more on formal mathematics."—Lewi Stone, BioScience
"The book begins with a stellar overview of the purpose of modeling, contrasting statistical with dynamical models, and theoretical with practical models both clearly and even-handedly...[E]ngaging the full breadth and depth of this book could be an education for both instructors and students alike."—Frederick R. Adler, Mathematical Biosciences
"[S]tudents from both biology and mathematics can gain much from this book. Dynamic Models in Biology would be appropriate for use in a semester or two-quarter course; however, with judicious selection of topics, it can be used in a quarter. My students included undergraduates in biology with knowledge only of calculus, undergraduates in mathematics, and graduate students and academic staff in biology, all enrolled on a ten-week course. . . . Overall, Dynamic Models in Biology fills an important niche in the biological modeling canon. It occupies a place on my shelf next to Edelstein-Keshet (1988) and Murray (1989), and like them, will become a well-thumbed reference."—Carole L. Hom, Environmental Conservation
"This book is written with the reality of biology students and their apprehension about mathematics in mind. The applications of mathematical models to real biological problems are not contrived, as they are in a number of other texts. And the biology examples are taken from the current literature—a wonderful help to those who will be teaching with this book."—Jim Keener, University of Utah, author of Principles of Applied Mathematics and Mathematical Physiology

"Dynamic Models in Biology is a new and significant contribution to the field. Very well written and clearly presented, it fulfills its goal of bringing dynamic models into the undergraduate biology curriculum. Indeed it puts biology first, and then seeks to show how biological phenomena can be explained in mathematical terms."—Martin Henry H. Stevens, Miami University

"This excellent book is a major contribution to the literature. Strong biologically and mathematically, well-organized, and engagingly written, it introduces the subject of dynamical models in biology in as coherent a way as I have seen anywhere. Few authors could approach this topic as authoritatively as do Ellner and Guckenheimer."—Simon Levin, Princeton University, author of The Importance of Species and The Encyclopedia of Biodiversity






          Resources
      


Preface


Chapter 1


Chapter 7


Chapter 9




      			Digital Government: Technology and Public Sector Performance 

Few developments have had broader consequences for the public sector than the introduction of the Internet and digital technology. In this book, Darrell West discusses how new technology is altering governmental performance, the political process, and democracy itself by improving government responsiveness and increasing information available to citizens. Using multiple methods — case studies, content analysis of over 17,000 government Web sites, public and bureaucrat opinion survey data, an e-mail responsiveness test, budget data, and aggregate analysis — the author presents the most comprehensive study of electronic government ever undertaken. Among other topics, he looks at how much change has taken place in the public sector, what determines the speed and breadth of e-government adoption, and what the consequences of digital technology are for the public sector. Written in a clear and analytical manner, this book outlines the variety of factors that have restricted the ability of policy makers to make effective use of new technology. Although digital government offers the potential for revolutionary change, social, political, and economic forces constrain the scope of transformation and prevent government officials from realizing the full benefits of interactive technology.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the 2006 Don K. Price Award, Science, Technology, and Environmental Politics Section of the American Political Science Association





Darrell M. West is the John Hazen White Professor of Political Science and Public Policy and Director of the Taubman Center for Public Policy at Brown University. He is the author of thirteen books, including Crosstalk: Citizens, Candidates, and the Media in a Presidential Campaign; Patrick Kennedy: The Rise to Power; Air Wars: Television Advertising in Election Campaigns, 1952-2000; and The Rise and Fall of the Media Establishment. His Web site, InsidePolitics.org, features in-depth research on electronic government at the city, state, national, and international levels.






"A comprehensive, detailed, survey of e-government practices, this book is a significant contribution to the field."—Stuart Bretschneider, Syracuse University
"This well-written book nicely blends the diffusion theory of technical innovations with the comprehensive nature of the evolution of e-government."—M. Jae Moon, Korea University and Texas A&M University
"I've seen no other work that brings together this much empirical evidence on the general trend of government agencies' adoption of IT for their services."—Eszter Hargittai, Northwestern University.


      			Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age The hazards of perfect memory in the digital age

Delete looks at the surprising phenomenon of perfect remembering in the digital age, and reveals why we must reintroduce our capacity to forget. Digital technology empowers us as never before, yet it has unforeseen consequences as well. Potentially humiliating content on Facebook is enshrined in cyberspace for future employers to see. Google remembers everything we’ve searched for and when. The digital realm remembers what is sometimes better forgotten, and this has profound implications for us all.In Delete, Viktor Mayer-Schönberger traces the important role that forgetting has played throughout human history, from the ability to make sound decisions unencumbered by the past to the possibility of second chances. The written word made it possible for humans to remember across generations and time, yet now digital technology and global networks are overriding our natural ability to forget—the past is ever present, ready to be called up at the click of a mouse. Mayer-Schönberger examines the technology that’s facilitating the end of forgetting—digitization, cheap storage and easy retrieval, global access, and increasingly powerful software—and describes the dangers of everlasting digital memory, whether it’s outdated information taken out of context or compromising photos the Web won’t let us forget. He explains why information privacy rights and other fixes can’t help us, and proposes an ingeniously simple solution—expiration dates on information—that may.Delete is an eye-opening book that will help us remember how to forget in the digital age.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the 2010 Marshall McLuhan Award for Outstanding Book in Media ecology, Media Ecology Association
Winner of the 2010 Don K. Price Award, Science, Technology, and Environmental Politics Section of the American Political Science Association





Viktor Mayer-Schönberger is professor of internet governance and regulation at the Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford, and a member of the academic advisory board of Microsoft. His other books include Governance and Information Technology. A former software developer and lawyer, he spent ten years on the faculty of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.






"Mayer-Schonberger deserves to be applauded and Delete deserves to be read for making us aware of the timelessness of what we created and for getting us to consider what endless accumulation might portend."—Paul Duguid, Times Literary Supplement
"In Delete, Viktor Mayer-Schönberger argues that we should be less troubled by the fleetingness of our digital records than by the way they can linger."—Adam Keiper, Wall Street Journal
"Mayer-Schönberger raises questions about the power of technology and how it affects our interpretation of time. . . . He draws on a rich body of contemporary psychological theory to argue that both individuals and societies are obliged to rewrite or eliminate elements of the past that would render action in the present impossible."—Fred Turner, Nature
"There is no better source for fostering an informed debate on this issue."—Science
"A fascinating book."—Clive Thompson, WIRED Magazine
"As its title suggests, Delete is about forgetting, more specifically about the demise of forgetting and the resulting perils. . . . [Mayer-Schonberger] comes up with an interesting solution: expiration dates in electronic files. This would stop the files from existing forever and flooding us and the next generations with gigantic piles of mostly useless or even potentially harmful details. This proposal should not be forgotten as we navigate between the urge to record and immortalise our lives and the need to stay productive and sane."—Yadin Dudai, New Scientist
"Delete is a useful recap of the various methods that are—or could be—applied to dealing with the consequences of information abundance. It also adds a thought-provoking new twist to the literature."—Richard Waters, Financial Times
"Unlike so many books about the internet, which like to hit the panic button then run, Mayer-Schönberger stays around to offer a solution. . . . Mayer-Schönberger deserves to be applauded and Delete deserves to be read for making us aware of the timelessness of what we create and for getting us to consider what endless accumulation might portend."—Paul Duguid, Times Higher Education
"This book . . . is laid out like an invitation to such a sparring session. There you find the detailed arguments, spread out one by one. Get ready to highlight where you agree, note contradictions and arguments not carried through to their consequential end, and make annotations where you feel a new punch. The session will be worth the effort."—Herbert Burkert, Cyberlaw
"A lively, accessible argument . . . that all that stored and shared data is a serious threat to life as we know it."—Jim Willse, Newark Star Ledger
"A fascinating work of social and technological criticism. . . . The book explores the ways various technologies has altered the human relationship with memory, shifting us from a society where the default was to forget (and consequently forgive) to one where it is impossible to avoid the ramifications of a permanent record."—Philip Martin, Arkansas Democrat Gazette
"Mayer-Schönberger convincingly claims that our new status quo, the impossibility of forgetting, is severely misaligned to how the human brain works, and to how individuals and societies function. . . . Can anything be done? Delete is an accessible, thoughtful and alarming attempt to start debate."—Karlin Lillington, Irish Times
"To argue for more forgetting is counter-intuitive to those who value information, history and transparency, but the writer pursues it systematically and thoroughly."—Richard Thwaites, Canberra Times
"Surprising and fascinating. . . . Delete opens a highly useful debate."—Robert Fulford, National Post
"Delete offers many scary examples of how the control of personal information stored in e-memory can fall into the wrong hands. . . . Lucid, eminently readable."—Winifred Gallagher, Globe and Mail
"Delete is one of a number of smart recent books that gently and eruditely warn us of the rising costs and risks of mindlessly diving into new digital environments—without, however, raising apocalyptic fears of the entire project. . . . [Mayer-Schonberger] is a digital enthusiast with a realistic sense of how we might go very wrong by embracing powerful tools before we understand them."—Siva Vaidhyanathan, Chronicle of Higher Education
"In this brief book, Mayer-Schönberger focuses on a unique feature of the digital age: contemporaries have lost the capacity to forget. Many books on privacy frequently mention, but never address in detail, the implications of an almost perfect memory system that digital technology and global networks have brought about. . . . An interesting book, well within the reach of the intelligent reader."—Choice
"Clearly the conversation has begun, and Delete is well placed to contribute."—Matthew L. Smith, Identity in the Information Society
"If the gathering, storage, and processing of information puts us all in the center of a digital panopticon, the failure to forget creates a panopticon crossbred with a time-travel machine. Mayer-Schönberger catalogs the range of social concerns that are arising as technology favors remembering over forgetting, and offers some approaches that might give forgetting a respected place in the digital world. Read this book. Don't forget about forgetting."—David Clark, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
"Delete is, ironically, a book you will not forget. It provides a sweeping but well-balanced account of the challenges we face in a world where our digital traces are saved for life. These issues transcend just issues of privacy but go to the heart of how our society and we as individuals function, remember, and learn. I highly recommend this most informative and delightful book."—John Seely Brown, University of Southern California, coauthor of The Social Life of Information
"An erudite and wide-reaching account of the role that forgetting has played in history—and how forgetting became an exception due to digital technology and global networks. Mayer-Schönberger vividly depicts the legal, social, and cultural implications of a world that no longer remembers how to forget. Delete deserves the broadest possible readership."—Paul M. Schwartz, Berkeley School of Law
"In a work of extraordinary breadth and erudition, Viktor Mayer-Schönberger broadens the 'privacy' debate to encompass the dimension of time. His concept of 'digital forgetting' reshapes how sociologists, technologists, and policymakers must define and protect individual autonomy as technology usurps the prerogatives of human memory."—Philip Evans, Boston Consulting Group
"Human society has taken for granted the fact of forgetting. Technology has made us less able to forget, and this change, as Mayer-Schönberger nicely demonstrates, will have a profound effect on society. We as a culture must think carefully and strategically about this incredibly significant problem. Delete will spark a debate we need to have."—Lawrence Lessig, author of Remix: Making Art and Commerce Thrive in the Hybrid Economy
"Delete is a refreshingly philosophical take on the new dilemmas created by extensive digital documentation of our daily lives. Mayer-Schönberger's background in business and technology leads him to a creative and novel response to the challenges generated by persistent storage of data. Delete is a valuable contribution."—Frank Pasquale, Seton Hall Law School


      			Validated Numerics: A Short Introduction to Rigorous Computations 

This textbook provides a comprehensive introduction to the theory and practice of validated numerics, an emerging new field that combines the strengths of scientific computing and pure mathematics. In numerous fields ranging from pharmaceutics and engineering to weather prediction and robotics, fast and precise computations are essential. Based on the theory of set-valued analysis, a new suite of numerical methods is developed, producing efficient and reliable solvers for numerous problems in nonlinear analysis. Validated numerics yields rigorous computations that can find all possible solutions to a problem while taking into account all possible sources of error — fast, and with guaranteed accuracy. Validated Numerics offers a self-contained primer on the subject, guiding readers from the basics to more advanced concepts and techniques. This book is an essential resource for those entering this fast-developing field, and it is also the ideal textbook for graduate students and advanced undergraduates needing an accessible introduction to the subject. Validated Numerics features many examples, exercises, and computer labs using MATLAB/C++, as well as detailed appendixes and an extensive bibliography for further reading. Provides a comprehensive, self-contained introduction to validated numerics  Requires no advanced mathematics or programming skills  Features many examples, exercises, and computer labs  Includes code snippets that illustrate implementation  Suitable as a textbook for graduate students and advanced undergraduates




Warwick Tucker is professor of mathematics and principal investigator for the Computer-Aided Proofs in Analysis (CAPA) Group at Uppsala University in Sweden. He has been honored with several awards, including the European Mathematical Society's Prize for Distinguished Contributions in Mathematics, the R. E. Moore Prize for Applications of Interval Analysis, and the Swedish Mathematical Society's Wallenberg Prize.






"Beyond obvious practical value, this material offers students an excellent opportunity to revisit and rethink some crucial, fundamental college mathematics."—Choice
"[T]his little book is a very important supplement to existing books on validated numerics. It is a must for researchers working in this field."—G. Alefeld, Mathematical Reviews
"The book contains a lot of exercises, various small programs written in MATLAB code, and four sections with numerous problems provided for experimenting on a computer. It is written at an elementary level corresponding to its aims. But it is also a pleasure for specialists to leaf through the book."—Gunter Mayer, Zentralblatt MATH
"This book is an essential resource for those entering this fast-developing field, and it is also the ideal textbook for graduate students and advanced undergraduates needing an accessible introduction to the subject."—World Book Industry
"Validated Numerics contains introductory material on interval arithmetic and rigorous computations that is easily accessible to students with little background in mathematics and computer programming. I am not aware of any other book like it. The exercises and computer labs make it ideal for the classroom, and the references offer a good starting point for readers trying to gain deeper knowledge in this area."—Zbigniew Galias, AGH University of Science and Technology, Kraków
"A significant contribution, particularly since there are not many texts in this area. Validated Numerics will be read by those interested in interval arithmetic, numerical analysis, and ways to make computer simulations more robust and less susceptible to errors. It is well written and well organized."—A. J. Meir, Auburn University


      			Watch Me Play: Twitch and the Rise of Game Live Streaming A look at the revolution in game live streaming and esports broadcasting

Every day thousands of people broadcast their gaming live to audiences over the internet using popular sites such as Twitch, which reaches more than one hundred million viewers a month. In these new platforms for interactive entertainment, big esports events featuring digital game competitors live stream globally, and audiences can interact with broadcasters—and each other—through chat in real time. What are the ramifications of this exploding online industry? Taking readers inside home studios and backstage at large esports events, Watch Me Play investigates the rise of game live streaming and how it is poised to alter how we understand media and audiences.Through extensive interviews and immersion in this gaming scene, T. L. Taylor delves into the inner workings of the live streaming platform Twitch. From branding to business practices, she shows the pleasures and work involved in this broadcasting activity, as well as the management and governance of game live streaming and its hosting communities. At a time when gaming is being reinvented through social media, the potential of an ever-growing audience is transforming user-generated content and alternative distribution methods. These changes will challenge the meaning of ownership and intellectual property and open the way to new forms of creativity.The first book to explore the online phenomenon Twitch and live streaming games, Watch Me Play offers a vibrant look at the melding of private play and public entertainment.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the CITAMS Book Award, Communication, Information Technologies, and Media Sociology Section of the American Sociological Association





T. L. Taylor is professor of comparative media studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Her books include Raising the Stakes and Play between Worlds.






"[Taylor’s] work expertly builds a historical framework for Twitch and outlines how patterns of behavior have evolved on the platform without overcommitting to any last-word assessments of its influence [and] also demonstrates how invigorating academic scholarship can be when it tries to tackle a subject still in formation."—Jacob Merten, The Velvet Light Trap
"well worth reading. . .  [A] timely, wide-ranging introduction to, immersion in, and analysis of, Twitch and game live streaming."—Helle Breth Klausen, MedieKultur
"Watch Me Play is an accessible text that both legitimizes academic inquiry into live streaming and provides a concrete base from which to build. Taylor uses comprehensible language to explain nuanced practices from
gaming, legal, academic, and financial contexts, making this book useful for academics and students, as well as consumers, producers, streamers, and designers."—Janelle Malagon, Popular Culture Studies
“Interest in online streaming platforms, especially for games and Twitch, is at its height. This timely and urgently needed book successfully conveys the technical, legal, emotional, and social complexities of what people are doing in Twitch. Providing a nuanced and close-to-the-ground analysis, Watch Me Play will be the go-to work for learning about this gaming experience.”—Thomas M. Malaby, author of Making Virtual Worlds: Linden Lab and Second Life 
“Based on years of immersion and research, Watch Me Play is a masterful book and covers an area that has not received much serious study before. Using rich and inventive methods, Taylor makes a compelling argument for thinking about games across media. I loved the writing and learned a great deal.”—Jonathan Sterne, author of MP3: The Meaning of a Format
“If you’ve ever wondered why anyone would watch someone else playing videogames, this book is for you. Deep, analytical, and comprehensive, Watch Me Play is the greatest written resource on the complex world of internet streaming.”—Paul Chaloner, managing director of Code Red Esports


      			Global "Body Shopping": An Indian Labor System in the Information Technology Industry 

How can America’s information technology (IT) industry predict serious labor shortages while at the same time laying off tens of thousands of employees annually? The answer is the industry’s flexible labor management system — a flexibility widely regarded as the modus operandi of global capitalism today. Global “Body Shopping” explores how flexibility and uncertainty in the IT labor market are constructed and sustained through concrete human actions. Drawing on in-depth field research in southern India and in Australia, and folding an ethnography into a political economy examination, Xiang Biao offers a richly detailed analysis of the India-based global labor management practice known as “body shopping.” In this practice, a group of consultants — body shops — in different countries works together to recruit IT workers. Body shops then farm out workers to clients as project-based labor; and upon a project’s completion they either place the workers with a different client or “bench” them to await the next placement. Thus, labor is managed globally to serve volatile capital movement. Underpinning this practice are unequal socioeconomic relations on multiple levels. While wealth in the New Economy is created in an increasingly abstract manner, everyday realities — stock markets in New York, benched IT workers in Sydney, dowries in Hyderabad, and women and children in Indian villages — sustain this flexibility.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the 2008 Anthony Leeds Prize in Urban Anthropology, Society for Urban, National, and Transnational/Global Anthropology





Xiang Biao is Academic Fellow at the Institute of Social and Cultural Anthropology and the Centre on Migration, Policy and Society at the University of Oxford. He is the author of Transcending Boundaries.






"Xiang Biao's book opens a fascinating window. . . . Although addressing a profoundly complex subject, it is intended to be read by people with little background in India or familiarity with the IT industry. Global 'Body Shopping' is an enjoyable and easy read, while offering a detailed and sophisticated critique of the unchallenged embrace of global capitalism. It deserves a wide readership among those with an interest in globalization studies and will be particularly useful for people desiring to find out more about ethnographic work that is global in scope."—Nanlai Cao, Pacific Journal of Anthropology
"Xiang Biao's avowed goal at an analysis incorporating ethnography and political economic analysis has long been a requirement for scholars interested in the production and maintenance of transnational work and flexible labor. Global Body Shopping more than lives up to this ideal. . . . I strongly recommend this ethnography as essential reading for scholars interested in questions of globalization, transnationality, and flexible labor."—Mathangi Krishnamurthy, American Ethnologist
"Xiang Biao tells the fascinating story of how body shopping brought globalization into the lives of hitherto minimally influenced rural youth and facilitated their movement into the highly volatile global arena of information technology . . . he has created a remarkably clear picture of a complex globally dispersed labor chain. . . . Not only does this innovative book provide a strong foundation for scholars interested in this under-researched global labor system, it is a great resource for teaching political and economic geography as well as courses exploring the various facets of globalization."—Monalisa Gangopadhyay, Political Geography
"Xiang has produced what may well be the first contribution of a contemporary anthropologist from China to the ethnographic study of global issues. . . . The book is compact, lucid, and jargon-free, making it one of the most accessible ethnographies of how the global migration regime's shift towards temporary skilled labour is changing societies."—Nyíri Pál, Critique of Anthropology
"The book provides an important corrective to analyses that ignore the lower end of the IT labour market. The discussion of how Indian community associations contribute to workers' quiescence is a valuable addition to Saxenian's insights regarding how such community associations in places such as Silicon Valley promote entrepreneurship and innovation. Biao also goes beyond Castells' emphasis on exclusion through the digital divide to show how the more glamorous parts of the IT industry are sustained in part by the flexibility provided by body-shopped labour and the social reproduction taken on by local communities, extended families and governments."—Seán Ó Riain, International Journal of Urban and Regional Research
"Xiang Biao's Global Bodyshopping is an outstanding example of multi-sited ethnography and a timely story of globally mobile workers. . . . [Xiang] Biao must be congratulated for his nuanced approach to the subject."—A. Aneesh, International Review of Modern Sociology
"The novelty of this work lies in its attempt to study social groups within the context of the ongoing processes of abstraction and virtualism, as these groups develop strategies to participate in global processes. . . . Xiang's book presents the daily lives, the intricate familial and professional negotiations, calculations and strategies, dreams and speculations through which individual Indians in the finger-labour market survive."—Madhava Prasad, Inter-Asia Cultural Studies
"[A]n extremely well written-book with mega-doses of anthropology mixed with humour."—Raghunath, Nilanjan, Asian Journal of Social Science
"[The book is] remarkable for meticulous research, mastery of details and understanding of the structures and processes of the industry. . . . This book must be read—not only by all social scientists, but by all those enthusiastic votaries and skeptical denouncers of IT as India's present and future."—Samita Sen, Global South
"I find the book most instructive in teaching us how political economic analyses sensitive to fine-grained details about the local and everyday life can enrich a global ethnography. What holds the book together is its creative use of socioanthropological methodologies to understand the phenomenon of 'body shopping' peculiar to the information technology (IT) industry. . . . I find his honesty and the unpredictability of his narratives refreshing."—Mark Lawrence Santiago, Singapore Journal of Tropical Geography
"[A] sterling exemplar of what anthropology is and can be today. . . . In a world of anthropologists never-ending anxiety over the loss of cultures, the loss of their own ability to explain cultures, and the problem of finding new things to study, Xiang's book offers a way out: it shows how one can study a structure within a larger system and explain both how that structure works and how it illuminates the function of the larger system. The combination of a simple explanation (hard-won through fieldwork) of a complex technical and economic system, with the exploration of its effects on social and personal lives of an extended network of families, villages, and corporations scattered around the globe is what makes this the perfect 'Intro to Cultural Anthropology' book in my estimation."—Christopher Kelty, Savage Minds: Notes and Queries in Anthropology
"Bravura ethnographic reportage. Of the many manuscripts and books I have read on anthropological forays into globalization issues, this is the one I would most want my students to have as an exemplar as they plan their research."—George E. Marcus, Rice University, coauthor of Anthropology as Cultural Critique
"This book is a wonderful contribution to the anthropology of transnationalism and the sociology of labor. It is also a really innovative analysis of an important new professional cadre that is of crucial importance to globalization."—Peter van der Veer, Utrecht University, author of Imperial Encounters: Religion and Modernity in Britain and India
"This is the first extended study of body shopping, a global system for training, managing, and circulating skilled labor. In this multisited analysis, Xiang Biao traces the links between Indian kinship and mobile professionals, Indian body shops and Western corporations, and Asian outsourcing and the rise of new entrepreneurs."—Aihwa Ong, University of California, Berkeley, author of Buddha Is Hiding: Refugees, Citizenship, the New America


      			Discrete and Computational Geometry		

Discrete geometry is a relatively new development in pure mathematics, while computational geometry is an emerging area in applications-driven computer science. Their intermingling has yielded exciting advances in recent years, yet what has been lacking until now is an undergraduate textbook that bridges the gap between the two. Discrete and Computational Geometry offers a comprehensive yet accessible introduction to this cutting-edge frontier of mathematics and computer science. This book covers traditional topics such as convex hulls, triangulations, and Voronoi diagrams, as well as more recent subjects like pseudotriangulations, curve reconstruction, and locked chains. It also touches on more advanced material, including Dehn invariants, associahedra, quasigeodesics, Morse theory, and the recent resolution of the Poincaré conjecture. Connections to real-world applications are made throughout, and algorithms are presented independently of any programming language. This richly illustrated textbook also features numerous exercises and unsolved problems. The essential introduction to discrete and computational geometry  Covers traditional topics as well as new and advanced material  Features numerous full-color illustrations, exercises, and unsolved problems  Suitable for sophomores in mathematics, computer science, engineering, or physics  Rigorous but accessible  An online solutions manual is available (for teachers only). To obtain access, please e-mail: Vickie_Kearn@press.princeton.edu




Satyan L. Devadoss is associate professor of mathematics at Williams College. Joseph O'Rourke is the Olin Professor of Computer Science and professor of mathematics at Smith College. His books include Geometric Folding Algorithms: Linkages, Origami, Polyhedra.






"Discrete and Computational Geometry meets an urgent need for an undergraduate text bridging the theoretical sides and the applied sides of the field. It is an excellent choice as a textbook for an undergraduate course in discrete and computational geometry! The presented material should be accessible for most mathematics or computer science majors in their second or third year in college. The book also is a valuable resource for graduate students and researchers."—Egon Schulte, Zentralblatt MATH
"[W]e recommend this book for an undergraduate course on computational geometry. In fact, we hope to use this book ourselves when we teach such a class."—Brittany Terese Fasy and David L. Millman, SigAct News
"This book is ideal for people who want to learn about the topic without wading too deeply into technical details. I really like the figures, and the writing style is very nice for students, with frequent jumps into exercises. The book favors topics that are intuitive, engaging, and easily grasped. It could form the basis of an excellent undergraduate-level course for students in computer science, applied mathematics, and pure mathematics."—Samir Khuller, University of Maryland
"I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book. It covers an incredibly diverse set of topics, ranging from elementary objects to deep mathematical concepts and important computational problems. Devadoss and O'Rourke have done a remarkable job of showing off the rich interplay between pure mathematics and computing that drives our research community. There really is nothing else like this on the market."—Jeff Erickson, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign





          Resources
      


Table of Contents


Chapter 1




      			Numerical Algorithms for Personalized Search in Self-organizing Information Networks		

This book lays out the theoretical groundwork for personalized search and reputation management, both on the Web and in peer-to-peer and social networks. Representing much of the foundational research in this field, the book develops scalable algorithms that exploit the graphlike properties underlying personalized search and reputation management, and delves into realistic scenarios regarding Web-scale data.  Sep Kamvar focuses on eigenvector-based techniques in Web search, introducing a personalized variant of Google’s PageRank algorithm, and he outlines algorithms — such as the now-famous quadratic extrapolation technique — that speed up computation, making personalized PageRank feasible. Kamvar suggests that Power Method-related techniques ultimately should be the basis for improving the PageRank algorithm, and he presents algorithms that exploit the convergence behavior of individual components of the PageRank vector. Kamvar then extends the ideas of reputation management and personalized search to distributed networks like peer-to-peer and social networks. He highlights locality and computational considerations related to the structure of the network, and considers such unique issues as malicious peers. He describes the EigenTrust algorithm and applies various PageRank concepts to P2P settings. Discussion chapters summarizing results conclude the book’s two main sections.  Clear and thorough, this book provides an authoritative look at central innovations in search for all of those interested in the subject.




Sep Kamvar is a consulting assistant professor of computational mathematics at Stanford University. From 2003 to 2007, he was the engineering lead for personalization at Google. He is the founder and former CEO of Kaltix, a personalized search engine acquired by Google in 2003.






"The writing style is extremely clear, and the book is accessible to readers both within and outside of the field."—Chen Greif, University of British Columbia
"The clarity of presentation makes this book accessible to a broad audience. The scholarship is thorough and sound, and the experimental results are presented in a precise and detailed fashion."—Taher Haveliwala, QForge Labs
"Kamvar helped establish a foundation for P2P search and this book provides an authoritative record and source for his excellent work in this area."—Andrew Tomkins, Google


      			Numerical Methods for Stochastic Computations: A Spectral Method Approach 

The@ first graduate-level textbook to focus on fundamental aspects of numerical methods for stochastic computations, this book describes the class of numerical methods based on generalized polynomial chaos (gPC). These fast, efficient, and accurate methods are an extension of the classical spectral methods of high-dimensional random spaces. Designed to simulate complex systems subject to random inputs, these methods are widely used in many areas of computer science and engineering.  The book introduces polynomial approximation theory and probability theory; describes the basic theory of gPC methods through numerical examples and rigorous development; details the procedure for converting stochastic equations into deterministic ones; using both the Galerkin and collocation approaches; and discusses the distinct differences and challenges arising from high-dimensional problems. The last section is devoted to the application of gPC methods to critical areas such as inverse problems and data assimilation.  Ideal for use by graduate students and researchers both in the classroom and for self-study, Numerical Methods for Stochastic Computations provides the required tools for in-depth research related to stochastic computations. The first graduate-level textbook to focus on the fundamentals of numerical methods for stochastic computations  Ideal introduction for graduate courses or self-study  Fast, efficient, and accurate numerical methods  Polynomial approximation theory and probability theory included  Basic gPC methods illustrated through examples




Dongbin Xiu is associate professor of mathematics at Purdue University.






"[A]s a newbie to this field, by reading this lively written text I was able to gain insight into this really interesting and challenging matter."—Peter Mathé, Mathematical Reviews
"Short and comprehensive, this book is appropriate for novices of polynomial chaos. Many diverse fields are adopting this method, and this book can be used for first-year graduate studies as well as senior undergraduate courses. The book includes important new developments, such as non-Gaussian processes and stochastic collocation methods."—George Karniadakis, Brown University


      			Dynamic Programming		

This classic book is an introduction to dynamic programming, presented by the scientist who coined the term and developed the theory in its early stages. In Dynamic Programming, Richard E. Bellman introduces his groundbreaking theory and furnishes a new and versatile mathematical tool for the treatment of many complex problems, both within and outside of the discipline. The book is written at a moderate mathematical level, requiring only a basic foundation in mathematics, including calculus. The applications formulated and analyzed in such diverse fields as mathematical economics, logistics, scheduling theory, communication theory, and control processes are as relevant today as they were when Bellman first presented them. A new introduction by Stuart Dreyfus reviews Bellman’s later work on dynamic programming and identifies important research areas that have profited from the application of Bellman’s theory.




Richard E. Bellman (1920-1984) is best known as the father of dynamic programming. He was the author of many books and the recipient of many honors, including the first Norbert Wiener Prize in Applied Mathematics.






      			Matrices, Moments and Quadrature with Applications		

This computationally oriented book describes and explains the mathematical relationships among matrices, moments, orthogonal polynomials, quadrature rules, and the Lanczos and conjugate gradient algorithms. The book bridges different mathematical areas to obtain algorithms to estimate bilinear forms involving two vectors and a function of the matrix. The first part of the book provides the necessary mathematical background and explains the theory. The second part describes the applications and gives numerical examples of the algorithms and techniques developed in the first part. Applications addressed in the book include computing elements of functions of matrices; obtaining estimates of the error norm in iterative methods for solving linear systems and computing parameters in least squares and total least squares; and solving ill-posed problems using Tikhonov regularization. This book will interest researchers in numerical linear algebra and matrix computations, as well as scientists and engineers working on problems involving computation of bilinear forms.




Gene H. Golub (1932-2007) was the Fletcher Jones Professor of Computer Science at Stanford University and the coauthor of Matrix Computations. Gérard Meurant, the author of three books on numerical linear algebra, has worked in scientific computing for almost four decades. He is retired from France's Commissariat à l'Énergie Atomique.






      			Algebraic Geometry in Coding Theory and Cryptography		

This textbook equips graduate students and advanced undergraduates with the necessary theoretical tools for applying algebraic geometry to information theory, and it covers primary applications in coding theory and cryptography. Harald Niederreiter and Chaoping Xing provide the first detailed discussion of the interplay between nonsingular projective curves and algebraic function fields over finite fields. This interplay is fundamental to research in the field today, yet until now no other textbook has featured complete proofs of it. Niederreiter and Xing cover classical applications like algebraic-geometry codes and elliptic-curve cryptosystems as well as material not treated by other books, including function-field codes, digital nets, code-based public-key cryptosystems, and frameproof codes. Combining a systematic development of theory with a broad selection of real-world applications, this is the most comprehensive yet accessible introduction to the field available. Introduces graduate students and advanced undergraduates to the foundations of algebraic geometry for applications to information theory  Provides the first detailed discussion of the interplay between projective curves and algebraic function fields over finite fields  Includes applications to coding theory and cryptography  Covers the latest advances in algebraic-geometry codes  Features applications to cryptography not treated in other books




Harald Niederreiter is professor of mathematics and computer science at the National University of Singapore. Chaoping Xing is professor of mathematics at the Nanyang Technological University in Singapore. They are the authors of Rational Points on Curves over Finite Fields: Theory and Applications.






"Coding theory has a rapidly growing corpus of knowledge, and now appears explicitly in several classifications in the MSC. [This] book . . . is certainly an important addition to the literature in this area and a serious candidate for becoming one of the standard textbooks in related courses."—Cicero Carvalho, Mathematical Reviews
"This is a beautifully written volume that gives the necessary background to read the research literature on coding and cryptography based on concepts from curves in algebraic geometries. Both of the authors are outstanding researchers, well known for the clarity and depth of their contributions. This work is a valuable and welcome addition to the literature on coding and cryptography."—Ian F. Blake, University of British Columbia


      			Digital Formations: IT and New Architectures in the Global Realm 

Computer-centered networks and technologies are reshaping social relations and constituting new social domains on a global scale, from virtually borderless electronic markets and Internet-based large-scale conversations to worldwide open source software development communities, transnational corporate production systems, and the global knowledge-arenas associated with NGO networks. This book explores how such “digital formations” emerge from the ever-changing intersection of computer-centered technologies and the broad range of social contexts that underlie much of what happens in cyberspace.  While viewing technologies fundamentally in social rather than technical terms, Digital Formations nonetheless emphasizes the importance of recognizing the specific technical capacities of digital technologies. Importantly, it identifies digital formations as a new area of study in the social sciences and in thinking about globalization. The ten chapters, by leading scholars, examine key social, political, and economic developments associated with these new configurations of organization, space, and interaction. They address the operation of digital formations and their implications for the development of longstanding institutions and for their wider contexts and fields, and they consider the political, economic, and other forces shaping those formations and how the formations, in turn, are shaping such forces.  Following a conceptual introduction by the editors are chapters by Hayward Alker, Jonathan Bach and David Stark, Lars-Erik Cederman and Peter A. Kraus, Dieter Ernst, D. Linda Garcia, Doug Guthrie, Robert Latham, Warren Sack, Saskia Sassen, and Steven Weber.




Robert Latham is Director of the Social Science Research Council Program on Information Technology and International Cooperation. He is the author of The Liberal Moment. Saskia Sassen is the Ralph Lewis Professor of Sociology at the University of Chicago and Centennial Visiting Professor at the London School of Economics. Her books include The Global City and the forthcoming Denationalization: Territory, Authority, and Rights in a Global Digital Age (both Princeton).






"A valuable contribution to scholarship, and one that I enjoyed reading, Digital Formations takes a unique approach to the subject of information technology. In seeking to build new conceptual frameworks and develop new perspectives, it provides a solid foundation for the elaboration of future empirical and theoretical work on IT and globalization."—Michel S. Laguerre, University of California, Berkeley, author of The Informal City and The Global Ethnopolis
"Comprehensive and insightful, Digital Formations will be greeted warmly in the fields that overlap its concerns. It addresses a most important set of questions concerning the relationship of information technologies to globalization. And this is an urgent topic for social science."—Mark Poster, University of California, Irvine, author of The Mode of Information and What's the Matter with the Internet?


      			Probability, Markov Chains, Queues, and Simulation: The Mathematical Basis of Performance Modeling 

Probability, Markov Chains, Queues, and Simulation provides a modern and authoritative treatment of the mathematical processes that underlie performance modeling. The detailed explanations of mathematical derivations and numerous illustrative examples make this textbook readily accessible to graduate and advanced undergraduate students taking courses in which stochastic processes play a fundamental role. The textbook is relevant to a wide variety of fields, including computer science, engineering, operations research, statistics, and mathematics.The textbook looks at the fundamentals of probability theory, from the basic concepts of set-based probability, through probability distributions, to bounds, limit theorems, and the laws of large numbers. Discrete and continuous-time Markov chains are analyzed from a theoretical and computational point of view. Topics include the Chapman-Kolmogorov equations; irreducibility; the potential, fundamental, and reachability matrices; random walk problems; reversibility; renewal processes; and the numerical computation of stationary and transient distributions. The M/M/1 queue and its extensions to more general birth-death processes are analyzed in detail, as are queues with phase-type arrival and service processes. The M/G/1 and G/M/1 queues are solved using embedded Markov chains; the busy period, residual service time, and priority scheduling are treated. Open and closed queueing networks are analyzed. The final part of the book addresses the mathematical basis of simulation.Each chapter of the textbook concludes with an extensive set of exercises. An instructor’s solution manual, in which all exercises are completely worked out, is also available (to professors only).Numerous examples illuminate the mathematical theoriesCarefully detailed explanations of mathematical derivations guarantee a valuable pedagogical approachEach chapter concludes with an extensive set of exercises




William J. Stewart is professor of computer science at North Carolina State University. He is the author of An Introduction to the Numerical Solution of Markov Chains (Princeton).






"The book represents a valuable text for courses in statistics and stochastic processes, so it is strongly recommended to libraries."—Hassan S. Bakouch, Journal of Applied Statistics
"This is an excellent book on the topics of probability, Markov chains, and queuing theory. Extremely well-written, the contents range from elementary topics to quite advanced material and include plenty of well-chosen examples."—Adarsh Sethi, University of Delaware
"Clear and pleasant to read, this book distinguishes itself from comparable textbooks by its inclusion of the computational aspects of the material."—Richard R. Muntz, University of California, Los Angeles





          Resources
      


Chapter 1




      			Distributed Control of Robotic Networks: A Mathematical Approach to Motion Coordination Algorithms 

This self-contained introduction to the distributed control of robotic networks offers a distinctive blend of computer science and control theory. The book presents a broad set of tools for understanding coordination algorithms, determining their correctness, and assessing their complexity; and it analyzes various cooperative strategies for tasks such as consensus, rendezvous, connectivity maintenance, deployment, and boundary estimation. The unifying theme is a formal model for robotic networks that explicitly incorporates their communication, sensing, control, and processing capabilities — a model that in turn leads to a common formal language to describe and analyze coordination algorithms. Written for first- and second-year graduate students in control and robotics, the book will also be useful to researchers in control theory, robotics, distributed algorithms, and automata theory. The book provides explanations of the basic concepts and main results, as well as numerous examples and exercises. Self-contained exposition of graph-theoretic concepts, distributed algorithms, and complexity measures for processor networks with fixed interconnection topology and for robotic networks with position-dependent interconnection topology  Detailed treatment of averaging and consensus algorithms interpreted as linear iterations on synchronous networks  Introduction of geometric notions such as partitions, proximity graphs, and multicenter functions  Detailed treatment of motion coordination algorithms for deployment, rendezvous, connectivity maintenance, and boundary estimation




Francesco Bullo is professor of mechanical engineering at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Jorge Cortés is associate professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at the University of California, San Diego. Sonia Martínez is assistant professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at the University of California, San Diego.






"This book covers its subject very thoroughly. The framework the authors have established is very elegant and, if it catches on, this book could be the primary reference for this approach. I don't know of any other book that covers this set of topics."—Richard M. Murray, California Institute of Technology
"The authors do an excellent job of clearly describing the problems and presenting rigorous, provably correct algorithms with complexity bounds for each problem. The authors also do a fantastic job of providing the mathematical insight necessary for such complex problems."—Ali Jadbabaie, University of Pennsylvania
"The order of presentation makes much sense, and the book thoroughly covers what it sets out to cover. The algorithms and results are presented using a clear mathematical and computer science formalism, which allows a uniform presentation. The formalism used and the way of presenting the algorithms may be helpful for structuring the presentation of new algorithms in the future."—Vincent Blondel, Université catholique de Louvain


      			Optimization Algorithms on Matrix Manifolds		

Many problems in the sciences and engineering can be rephrased as optimization problems on matrix search spaces endowed with a so-called manifold structure. This book shows how to exploit the special structure of such problems to develop efficient numerical algorithms. It places careful emphasis on both the numerical formulation of the algorithm and its differential geometric abstraction — illustrating how good algorithms draw equally from the insights of differential geometry, optimization, and numerical analysis. Two more theoretical chapters provide readers with the background in differential geometry necessary to algorithmic development. In the other chapters, several well-known optimization methods such as steepest descent and conjugate gradients are generalized to abstract manifolds. The book provides a generic development of each of these methods, building upon the material of the geometric chapters. It then guides readers through the calculations that turn these geometrically formulated methods into concrete numerical algorithms. The state-of-the-art algorithms given as examples are competitive with the best existing algorithms for a selection of eigenspace problems in numerical linear algebra. Optimization Algorithms on Matrix Manifolds offers techniques with broad applications in linear algebra, signal processing, data mining, computer vision, and statistical analysis. It can serve as a graduate-level textbook and will be of interest to applied mathematicians, engineers, and computer scientists.




P.-A. Absil is associate professor of mathematical engineering at the Université Catholique de Louvain in Belgium. R. Mahony is reader in engineering at the Australian National University. R. Sepulchre is professor of electrical engineering and computer science at the University of Liège in Belgium.






"This book is succinct but essentially self-contained; it includes an appendix with background material as well as an extensive bibliography. The algorithmic techniques developed may be useful anytime a model leads to a mathematical optimization problem where the domain naturally is a manifold, particularly if the manifold is a matrix manifold. The book follows the usual definition-theorem-proof style but it is not intended for traditional course work so there are no exercises. A reader with limited exposure to manifold theory and differential geometry most likely will benefit from consulting standard texts on those subjects first."—Anders Linner, Mathematical Reviews
"[T]his book is succinct but essentially self-contained; it includes an appendix with background material as well as an extensive bibliography. The algorithmic techniques developed may be useful anytime a model leads to a mathematical optimization problem where the domain naturally is a manifold, particularly if the manifold is a matrix manifold. The book follows the usual definition-theorem-proof style but it is not intended for traditional course work so there are no exercises. A reader with limited exposure to manifold theory and differential geometry most likely will benefit from consulting standard texts on those subjects first."—Anders Linnér, American Mathematical Society
"The book is very well and carefully written. Every chapter starts with a page-long introduction clearly outlining its goals and how they are achieved together with possible relations to other chapters. I find the material very well explained and supported with appropriate examples. It is a pleasure to work with such a book."—Nickolay T. Trendafilov, Foundations of Computational Mathematics
"The treatment strikes an appropriate balance between mathematical, numerical, and algorithmic points of view. The quality of the writing is quite high and very readable. The topic is very timely and is certainly of interest to myself and my students."—Kyle A. Gallivan, Florida State University





          Resources
      


Chapter 1




      			The Internet Trap: How the Digital Economy Builds Monopolies and Undermines Democracy Why there is no such thing as a free audience in today's attention economy

The internet was supposed to fragment audiences and make media monopolies impossible. Instead, behemoths like Google and Facebook now dominate the time we spend online—and grab all the profits. This provocative and timely book sheds light on the stunning rise of the digital giants and the online struggles of nearly everyone else, and reveals what small players can do to survive in a game that is rigged against them. Challenging some of the most enduring myths of digital life, Matthew Hindman explains why net neutrality alone is no guarantee of an open internet, and demonstrates what it really takes to grow a digital audience in today’s competitive online economy.

Awards and Recognition

Co-winner of the 2019 Goldsmith Book Prize for Academic Books, Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School
Winner of the 2018 Frank Luther Mott-Kappa Tau Alpha Journalism and Mass Communication Research Award





Matthew Hindman is associate professor of media and public affairs at George Washington University and the author of the award-winning book The Myth of Digital Democracy (Princeton).











"You may think you understand the internet, but chances are you don't. It's not what you thought, nor what you hoped. Read this book. Then make your friends read it, too.”—Michael J. Copps, former commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission
"The Internet Trap is the sole book to explain why media firms are dying from a lack of web traffic, what this means for politics and the public—and what firms can do to fight back. It teems with elegant writing, shrewd insights, real-world examples, and wit. If news companies have a savior, it is Matthew Hindman."—Kenneth Cukier, senior editor of The Economist and bestselling coauthor of Big Data
"Hindman's book upends conventional understandings of the open internet, and does so with an engaging style and precise arguments that leave a reader both enlightened and entertained. The Internet Trap is the best book I've read all year."—James T. Hamilton, author of Democracy's Detectives


      			The Myth of Digital Democracy		

Is the Internet democratizing American politics? Do political Web sites and blogs mobilize inactive citizens and make the public sphere more inclusive? The Myth of Digital Democracy reveals that, contrary to popular belief, the Internet has done little to broaden political discourse but in fact empowers a small set of elites — some new, but most familiar.  Matthew Hindman argues that, though hundreds of thousands of Americans blog about politics, blogs receive only a miniscule portion of Web traffic, and most blog readership goes to a handful of mainstream, highly educated professionals. He shows how, despite the wealth of independent Web sites, online news audiences are concentrated on the top twenty outlets, and online organizing and fund-raising are dominated by a few powerful interest groups. Hindman tracks nearly three million Web pages, analyzing how their links are structured, how citizens search for political content, and how leading search engines like Google and Yahoo! funnel traffic to popular outlets. He finds that while the Internet has increased some forms of political participation and transformed the way interest groups and candidates organize, mobilize, and raise funds, elites still strongly shape how political material on the Web is presented and accessed. The Myth of Digital Democracy. debunks popular notions about political discourse in the digital age, revealing how the Internet has neither diminished the audience share of corporate media nor given greater voice to ordinary citizens.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the 2010 Goldsmith Book Prize (Academic Book)
Winner of the 2009 Donald McGannon Award for Social and Ethical Relevance in Communications Policy Research, awarded by the Donald McGannon Communications Research Center





Matthew Hindman is assistant professor of political science at Arizona State University.


















"An outstanding combination of theoretical and empirical work. Hindman has produced one of the very few best books, ever, on the relationship between the Internet and democracy. Indispensable reading."—Cass R. Sunstein, author of Republic.com 2.0
"Hindman provides a serious, informed, and methodologically conscientious argument in favor of the position that the Internet has not fundamentally changed the elitist and concentrated structure of the public sphere typical of mass media. He produces significant evidence against both fears of fragmentation of discourse and hopes that we are seeing a more egalitarian and democratic networked public sphere. The contribution is important, and anyone working in this area will have to contend with his data and analysis."—Yochai Benkler, Harvard University
"Many authors make claims about the Internet and politics on the basis of some piece of the problem—by looking just at Web sites or blogs, or by examining link structure, or evaluating some aspect of campaigns for office. Hindman has drawn together many pieces of the puzzle into a coherent whole. This is an ambitious book, and it delivers."—Bruce Bimber, University of California, Santa Barbara
"This book makes a significant contribution to the study of political communication. Hindman's approach provides an extensive and multifaceted view of online political content, its producers, and its audiences. This book breaks new ground in important ways, and is likely to become a modern classic in the field of the Internet and politics."—Diana Owen, Georgetown University


      			Modeling with Data: Tools and Techniques for Scientific Computing 

Modeling with Data fully explains how to execute computationally intensive analyses on very large data sets, showing readers how to determine the best methods for solving a variety of different problems, how to create and debug statistical models, and how to run an analysis and evaluate the results.  Ben Klemens introduces a set of open and unlimited tools, and uses them to demonstrate data management, analysis, and simulation techniques essential for dealing with large data sets and computationally intensive procedures. He then demonstrates how to easily apply these tools to the many threads of statistical technique, including classical, Bayesian, maximum likelihood, and Monte Carlo methods. Klemens’s accessible survey describes these models in a unified and nontraditional manner, providing alternative ways of looking at statistical concepts that often befuddle students. The book includes nearly one hundred sample programs of all kinds. Links to these programs will be available on this page at a later date. Modeling with Data will interest anyone looking for a comprehensive guide to these powerful statistical tools, including researchers and graduate students in the social sciences, biology, engineering, economics, and applied mathematics.




Ben Klemens is a senior statistician at the National Institute of Mental Health. He is also a guest scholar at the Center on Social and Economic Dynamics at the Brookings Institution.






"This book presents an original, cheap and powerful solution to the problem of analysis of large data sets. . . . The book is devoted mainly to the practitioner of Statistics, but is also useful to mathematicians, computer scientists, researchers and students in the biology, economics and social sciences."—Radu Trimbitas, StudiaUBB
"I am a psychiatric geneticist but my degree is in neuroscience, which means that I now do far more statistics than I have been trained for. I cannot overstate to you the magnitude of the change in my productivity since finding this book. Even after reading the first few chapters, which explain why data analysis is painful and how one can implement a long-term solution, my research moved forward greatly."—Amber Baum, National Institute of Mental Health
"I enjoyed reading this book and learned a great deal from it. Modeling with Data filled in a lot of holes in my knowledge, and I think that will be true in general for other readers as well. There is a lot of high-quality and interesting material here."—Brendan Halpin, University of Limerick


      			Ecological Models and Data in R		

Ecological Models and Data in R is the first truly practical introduction to modern statistical methods for ecology. In step-by-step detail, the book teaches ecology graduate students and researchers everything they need to know in order to use maximum likelihood, information-theoretic, and Bayesian techniques to analyze their own data using the programming language R. Drawing on extensive experience teaching these techniques to graduate students in ecology, Benjamin Bolker shows how to choose among and construct statistical models for data, estimate their parameters and confidence limits, and interpret the results. The book also covers statistical frameworks, the philosophy of statistical modeling, and critical mathematical functions and probability distributions. It requires no programming background — only basic calculus and statistics. Practical, beginner-friendly introduction to modern statistical techniques for ecology using the programming language R  Step-by-step instructions for fitting models to messy, real-world data  Balanced view of different statistical approaches  Wide coverage of techniques — from simple (distribution fitting) to complex (state-space modeling)  Techniques for data manipulation and graphical display  Companion Web site with data and R code for all examples




Benjamin M. Bolker is a theoretical ecologist in the departments of Mathematics & Statistics and Biology at McMaster University.






"Bolker's book is a must-buy for anyone wanting to fit data to models and go beyond hypothesis testing, but it is certainly not an 'introductory' text in the sense of 'simple'. This book is a tour de force for anyone who studied ecology for his or her interest of nature's working. But it is the one single book that can propel the statistical novice to the cutting edge of statistical ecology—albeit with blood, sweat and tears."—Carsten F. Dormann, Basic and Applied Ecology
"[A] must for natural scientists and for statisticians who are interested in ecological applications. . . . Numerous enlightening footnotes, meaningful graphics and direct speech are evidence of substantial classroom experience of the author. . . . The book addresses students and researchers who have or have had some basic knowledge in ecology, mathematics and statistics. Delivering many examples and profound details on numerical aspects of maximum likelihood estimation, the book may also give a red line for a course in computational statistics."—Martin Schlather, Biometrical Journal
"[T]his book succeeds both in explaining how to analyze many types of ecological data, and in clearly describing the theoretical background behind some common analyses and approaches. I expect to refer to it often."—Lynda D. Prior, Austral Ecology
"This user-friendly introduction to likelihood and Bayesian statistical methods for ecology students is set apart by its emphasis on implementation in R. This alone will make it more useful than previous books. In contrast to other texts, Bolker's book explains how to fit models to data in enough detail that even students with little programming experience will be able to follow along. I expect this to become an exceedingly popular textbook."—Stephan B. Munch, Stony Brook University
"Benjamin Bolker is a pioneer in helping ecology students make the leap from a casual understanding of modern statistical methods to a hands-on application of these tools to their own precious data sets. This book shows the lessons learned from teaching this material to several cohorts of graduate students. No other book I've read gives such a good feel for the compromises scientists have to make in searching for good statistical models."—Brian Inouye, Florida State University
"I have no doubt that this book will become a fixture on many ecologists' bookshelves (it certainly will be on mine). With a presentation that is gentle and encouraging rather than jargon-filled and intimidating, it empowers ecologists to develop their own statistical procedures. I strongly recommend it."—Timothy Essington, University of Washington


      			Field Effect in Semiconductor-Electrolyte Interfaces: Application to Investigations of Electronic Properties of Semiconductor Surfaces 

This book presents a state-of-the-art understanding of semiconductor-electrolyte interfaces. It provides a detailed study of semiconductor-electrolyte interfacial effects, focusing on the physical and electrochemical foundations that affect surface charge, capacitance, conductance, quantum effects, and other properties, both from the point of view of theoretical modeling and metrology. The wet-dry interface, where solid-state devices may be in contact with electrolyte solutions, is of growing interest and importance. This is because such interfaces will be a key part of hydrogen energy and solar cells, and of sensors that would have wide applications in medicine, genomics, environmental science, and bioterrorism prevention. The field effect presented here by Pavel Konorov, Adil Yafyasov, and Vladislav Bogevolnov is a new method, one that allows investigation of the physical properties of semiconductor and superconductor surfaces. Before the development of this method, it was impossible to test these surfaces at room temperature. The behavior of electrodes in electrolytes under such realistic conduction conditions has been a major problem for the technical realization of systems that perform measurements in wet environments. This book also describes some material properties that were unknown before the development of the field effect method. This book will be of great interest to students and engineers working in semiconductor surface physics, electrochemistry, and micro- and nanoelectronics.




Pavel P. Konorov is Professor of Physics at St. Petersburg State University and a member of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences. Adil M. Yafyasov is Professor of Physics at St. Petersburg State University. Vladislav B. Bogevolnov is Associate Professor of Physics at St. Petersburg State University.






"This book is very timely and interesting. There is a considerable need for a text providing information on the wet-dry interface. There is a large and growing interdisciplinary activity in nanotechnology and biotechnology, where the issue of interfacing traditional semiconductor electronics and ionic solutions is crucial, and electrodes may well be the single most important technological issue. This very useful book has the potential to become a standard reference."—Umberto Ravaioli, University of Illinois
"This book is unique in providing a very practical way to characterize the semiconductor surface. It will make a very significant contribution to the field."—Jong-Hyeok Jeon, Purdue University


      			Scientific Parallel Computing		

What does Google’s management of billions of Web pages have in common with analysis of a genome with billions of nucleotides? Both apply methods that coordinate many processors to accomplish a single task. From mining genomes to the World Wide Web, from modeling financial markets to global weather patterns, parallel computing enables computations that would otherwise be impractical if not impossible with sequential approaches alone. Its fundamental role as an enabler of simulations and data analysis continues an advance in a wide range of application areas. Scientific Parallel Computing is the first textbook to integrate all the fundamentals of parallel computing in a single volume while also providing a basis for a deeper understanding of the subject. Designed for graduate and advanced undergraduate courses in the sciences and in engineering, computer science, and mathematics, it focuses on the three key areas of algorithms, architecture, languages, and their crucial synthesis in performance.  The book’s computational examples, whose math prerequisites are not beyond the level of advanced calculus, derive from a breadth of topics in scientific and engineering simulation and data analysis. The programming exercises presented early in the book are designed to bring students up to speed quickly, while the book later develops projects challenging enough to guide students toward research questions in the field. The new paradigm of cluster computing is fully addressed. A supporting web site provides access to all the codes and software mentioned in the book, and offers topical information on popular parallel computing systems. Integrates all the fundamentals of parallel computing essential for today’s high-performance requirements  Ideal for graduate and advanced undergraduate students in the sciences and in engineering, computer science, and mathematics  Extensive programming and theoretical exercises enable students to write parallel codes quickly  More challenging projects later in the book introduce research questions  New paradigm of cluster computing fully addressed  Supporting web site provides access to all the codes and software mentioned in the book




L. Ridgway Scott is Louis Block Professor of Computer Science and of Mathematics at the University of Chicago. He is the coauthor of The Mathematical Theory of Finite Element Methods. Terry Clark is Assistant Professor of Computer Science in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Kansas. Babak Bagheri is a software architect at PROS Revenue Management, a company that designs software for pricing and revenue management. Scott, Clark, and Bagheri codeveloped the P-languages.






"The text as a whole offers a good blend of theoretical and practical expertise with discussion of both hardware and software issues of parallel computing. This range of topics is the strength of the text, and not something found in other texts."—John Stone, Times Higher Education Supplement
"L. Ridgway Scott, Terry Clark, and Babak Bagheri have prepared a thorough treatment of the foundational and advanced principles of parallel computing. . . . [T]his book provides an excellent background for understanding grids and parallel algorithms in general."—Choice
"The authors of this well-written book provide a good overview of most of the issues they address, and their survey of different parallel programming languages and methodologies is quite impressive."—Suely Oliveira, University of Iowa
"I have used a different text each time I have taught parallel computing, but felt that they missed important material that I wished to include. This book includes many topics not addressed in other parallel computing texts, and the first few chapters are particularly well written."—Ashok Srinivasan, Florida State University
"This well-organized book takes a unique approach in its focus on all the intricacies involved in determining parallel performance, and I especially appreciated its use of the same small problems, summation, to motivate many concepts."—Nan C. Schaller, Rochester Institute of Technology





          Resources
      


Chapter 1


Chapter 1




      			Behind Deep Blue: Building the Computer that Defeated the World Chess Champion 

On May 11, 1997, as millions worldwide watched a stunning victory unfold on television, a machine shocked the chess world by defeating the defending world champion, Garry Kasparov. Written by the man who started the adventure, Behind Deep Blue reveals the inside story of what happened behind the scenes at the two historic Deep Blue vs. Kasparov matches. This is also the story behind the quest to create the mother of all chess machines. The book unveils how a modest student project eventually produced a multimillion dollar supercomputer, from the development of the scientific ideas through technical setbacks, rivalry in the race to develop the ultimate chess machine, and wild controversies to the final triumph over the world’s greatest human player. In nontechnical, conversational prose, Feng-hsiung Hsu, the system architect of Deep Blue, tells us how he and a small team of fellow researchers forged ahead at IBM with a project they’d begun as students at Carnegie Mellon in the mid-1980s: the search for one of the oldest holy grails in artificial intelligence — a machine that could beat any human chess player in a bona fide match. Back in 1949 science had conceived the foundations of modern chess computers but not until almost fifty years later — until Deep Blue — would the quest be realized.  Hsu refutes Kasparov’s controversial claim that only human intervention could have allowed Deep Blue to make its decisive, “uncomputerlike” moves. In riveting detail he describes the heightening tension in this war of brains and nerves, the “smoldering fire” in Kasparov’s eyes. Behind Deep Blue is not just another tale of man versus machine. This fascinating book tells us how man as genius was given an ultimate, unforgettable run for his mind, no, not by the genius of a computer, but of man as toolmaker.




Feng-hsiung Hsu is the founding father of the Deep Blue project. He began it in 1985 as a graduate student at Carnegie Mellon University. From 1989 to 1997 he worked as the system architect and chip designer for the Deep Blue Chess machine at IBM's T. J. Watson Research Center. He is now a senior researcher at Microsoft Research Asia.






"Mr. Hsu manages to make seemingly dry, technical material vivid and gripping, even for readers without a background in chess or computers. And his story is a fascinating study, of men as well as machines."—Christopher F. Chabris, The Wall Street Journal
"Hsu's account is written in an easy, flowing style, and, as he says, it is rather light-hearted. . . . The point that Hsu makes is that building and programming a computer that can calculate 2 million chess moves a second is not frivolous . . . All science is a kind of play, in the sense of a play of mind. . . . Most of Behind Deep Blue is Hsu's tale of encountering and overcoming obstacles in the design and programming of the computer to enable it to play chess like a human being. The technical aspects of both computers and chess will be fully comprehensible only to those with the appropriate experience and skill. The human story, though, is clear and exciting: dversity encountered, challenges met, all with the human elements of pride and anxiety and triumph. And the human elements, too, of anger and resentment."—Anthony Day, Los Angeles Times
"This book tells the gripping story of the construction, programming, preparation and use of the Deep Blue chess machine and its predecessors. It proves on every page the author's claim that computer scientists are human too, and they do like to have fun. The fun will be shared by the reader who has no prior knowledge of chess or of computer science."—Tony Hoare, Times Higher Education Supplement
"A chess-playing machine rather than a mere program, Deep Blue drew its awesome power from chips designed by Hsu to do nothing but play chess. The IBM team put 256 of these processors into a supercomputer, allowing it to analyze at least 100 million chess positions a second."—Nell Boyce, U.S. News and World Report
"A fascinating account of the IBM computer and the match, written by its programmer."—Lubomir Kavalek, The Washington Post
"This is a fascinating insight into the machinations and science that went into the now dismantled chess program which defeated Kasparov in 1997."—Raymond Keene, The Spectacle
"An intelligent, well-written account of a milestone in the history of computer science that stands out from the other books on Deep Blue. . . . Hsu's account goes beyond the tyupical man vs. machine angle and attempts to capture the true essence of the contest between men in two distinct roles: Kasparov as performer and Hsu's team as toolmaker."—Library Journal
"A fascinating story."—Booklist
"[Hsu's] conversational narrative takes us from school days in Taiwan through his graduate studies at Carnegie-Mellon University to his team's triumph in Deep Blue's second match against Garry Kasparov. . . . Hsu spins an intriguing behind-the-scenes tale of how he and his Deep Blue team prevailed."—Lee Gaillard, San Francisco Times
"Hsu's enthusiasm and expertise allow him to ease into the role of storyteller, and his personal narrative is colored with details that make, surprisingly, for a thrilling page turner."—Elizabeth Armstrong, Christian Science Monitor
"Mr. Hsu began trying to solve "The Computer Chess Program" in 1985 while a graduate student at Carnegie Mellon University. His narrative of those early days is as riveting as the details of the victory over Mr. Kasparov. It is not easy to make a discussion of computer chip design palatable to non-nerds. But the electronic intricacies of Mr. Hsu's rewiring of Deep Blue's hardware are explained in the context of university and chess world politics. By blending technical descriptions into the real-life daily dramas confronting the project, Mr. Hsu makes the trip exciting."—Doug Bedell, The Dallas Morning News
"A byte-by-byte account of the successful effort of IBM computer scientists to create a machine that could defeat a genius. . . . Hsu strives admirably to avoid geek-speak (he tells us what cursors and pawns are), and readers who speak neither computer-ese nor chess-ian can still enjoy the building tension. . . . A real-life Revenge of the Nerds, the tale captures some of the excitement of the day when a machine took a man to the woodshed."—Kirkus Reviews
"Hsu . . . was the system architect for Deep Blue. He makes an exciting tale of computer chess evolution and the Kasparov match."—Scientific American
"Mr. Hsu got my attention and kept it, though, bringing this strange story to life with a fluent, modest style, some side excursions into academic politics, a dash of wit, and riveting accounts of the games—and the gamesmanship—that led up to the May 1997 victory. . . . Part of this book's particular charm is that Mr. Hsu is level-headed about what he and his colleagues accomplished."—John Derbyshire, New York Sun
"By building both a winning program and a machine capable of running it, the IBM team realized a dream dating back to at least 1956..  . . Here is a blow-by-blow account of that extraordinary quest for technoglory, written by a man who participated in every phase of it."—James Case, SIAM News
"This is a story of the search for one of the oldest holy grails in artificial intelligence—a machine capable of beating any human chess player in a bona fide match. . . . It also exquisitely captures the very human dimension and is a page-turner not to be missed."—Choice
"[A] vivid, intimate portrayal of personal toil and triumph. Behind Deep Blue is warm, humorous and insightful. . . . Hsu . . . shows the reality of scientific exploration, warts and all, chronicling the obsessiveness, competitiveness and costly mistakes that mark most research (along with, of course, the thrills, fun and camaraderie)."—Jonathan Schaeffer, American Scientist
"Feng-hsiung Hsu, who masterminded Kasparov's match play defeat by a computer, tells his story. A nerdy book might be expected, delving into arcane topics (computer chip design, programming, chess), but instead we have something more like 'Indiana Jones and the Holy Grail.' No specialist knowledge is demanded. The author's adventures with phantom queens, etc. are fascinating. His will-to-win matched that of the legendary Kasparov."—Ken Whyld, Editor of the Oxford Companion to Chess
"I don't play chess; never have. Most research, as Edison said, is 90% perspiration and 10% inspiration—not exciting to watch. Thus, I did not have high hopes for Behind Deep Blue. Wrong! It's a page-turner! Even if you don't follow the technical details of chip design or chess, Hsu has captured the very human dimension exquisitely! It's a great story!"—William A. Wulf, President of the National Academy of Engineering, AA&M Professor of Computer Science, University of Virginia


      			Local Search in Combinatorial Optimization		

In the past three decades, local search has grown from a simple heuristic idea into a mature field of research in combinatorial optimization that is attracting ever-increasing attention. Local search is still the method of choice for NP-hard problems as it provides a robust approach for obtaining high-quality solutions to problems of a realistic size in reasonable time. Local Search in Combinatorial Optimization covers local search and its variants from both a theoretical and practical point of view, each topic discussed by a leading authority. This book is an important reference and invaluable source of inspiration for students and researchers in discrete mathematics, computer science, operations research, industrial engineering, and management science. In addition to the editors, the contributors are Mihalis Yannakakis, Craig A. Tovey, Jan H. M. Korst, Peter J. M. van Laarhoven, Alain Hertz, Eric Taillard, Dominique de Werra, Heinz Mühlenbein, Carsten Peterson, Bo Söderberg, David S. Johnson, Lyle A. McGeoch, Michel Gendreau, Gilbert Laporte, Jean-Yves Potvin, Gerard A. P. Kindervater, Martin W. P. Savelsbergh, Edward J. Anderson, Celia A. Glass, Chris N. Potts, C. L. Liu, Peichen Pan, Iiro Honkala, and Patric R. J. Östergård.




Emile Aarts is Vice-President and Scientific Program Director of the Philips Research Laboratories, Eindhoven, and a Professor of Computer Science at Eindhoven University of Technology. Jan Karel Lenstra is the John P. Hunter Chair and Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology.






"A truly remarkable and unique collection of work. . . . Invaluable."—Informs
"The world of local search has changed dramatically in the last decade and Aarts and Lenstra's book is a tribute to this development. . . . A very useful source."—Optima
"[This] is the best current reference for local search methods. I would expect this volume to remain an important reference for quite a number of years."—William J. Cook, Georgia Institute of Technology


      			The Importance of Being Fuzzy: And Other Insights from the Border between Math and Computers 

How has computer science changed mathematical thinking? In this first ever comprehensive survey of the subject for popular science readers, Arturo Sangalli explains how computers have brought a new practicality to mathematics and mathematical applications. By using fuzzy logic and related concepts, programmers have been able to sidestep the traditional and often cumbersome search for perfect mathematical solutions to embrace instead solutions that are “good enough.” If mathematicians want their work to be relevant to the problems of the modern world, Sangalli shows, they must increasingly recognize “the importance of being fuzzy.” As Sangalli explains, fuzzy logic is a technique that allows computers to work with imprecise terms — to answer questions with “maybe” rather than just “yes” and “no.” The practical implications of this flexible type of mathematical thinking are remarkable. Japanese programmers have used fuzzy logic to develop the city of Sendai’s unusually energy-efficient and smooth-running subway system — one that does not even require drivers. Similar techniques have been used in fields as diverse as medical diagnosis, image understanding by robots, the engineering of automatic transmissions, and the forecasting of currency exchange rates. Sangalli also explores in his characteristically clear and engaging manner the limits of classical computing, reviewing many of the central ideas of Turing and Godel. He shows us how “genetic algorithms” can solve problems by an evolutionary process in which chance plays a fundamental role. He introduces us to “neural networks,” which recognize ill-defined patterns without an explicit set of rules — much as a dog can be trained to scent drugs without ever having an exact definition of “drug.” Sangalli argues that even though “fuzziness” and related concepts are often compared to human thinking, they can be understood only through mathematics — but the math he uses in the book is straightforward and easy to grasp. Of equal appeal to specialists and the general reader, The Importance of Being Fuzzy reveals how computer science is changing both the nature of mathematical practice and the shape of the world around us.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the 1998 Award for Best Professional/Scholarly Book in Computer Science, Association of American Publishers





Arturo Sangalli is Professor of Mathematics at Champlain Regional College in Lennoxville, Québec.











"I know quite a few books on the fuzzy set theory and neuro-fuzzy systems, but this work is unique. No other book have I found so pleasant to read and, at the same time, no other book seems so informative for the fuzzy or soft computing newcomer. . . . [T]he book presents an excellent, clear written, and easy-to-understand advertisement for fuzzy computing."—H. Toth, Computing Reviews
"[Sangalli's] goal is to describe this recent work to a broad audience; he succeeds quite admirably. The Importance of Being Fuzzy is clear and easy to read, and yet it provides enough mathematical detail to give some appreciation for the meaning behind the metaphors."—Mark Johnson, The Mathematical Association of America Online Book Review
"A fascinating tour of the computing of the next century. Arturo Sangalli has beautifully described the three main branches of 'soft' computing: fuzzy logic, neural networks, and genetic algorithms, in addition to reviewing the main ideas and philosophy of traditional computing. Anyone who wants to find out what the mainstream of computing will look like thirty years from now (and perhaps much sooner) must read this fascinating book."—Doron Zeilberger, winner of the Leroy P. Steele Prize for Mathematics


      			Pseudorandomness and Cryptographic Applications		

A pseudorandom generator is an easy-to-compute function that stretches a short random string into a much longer string that “looks” just like a random string to any efficient adversary. One immediate application of a pseudorandom generator is the construction of a private key cryptosystem that is secure against chosen plaintext attack. There do not seem to be natural examples of functions that are pseudorandom generators. On the other hand, there do seem to be a variety of natural examples of another basic primitive: the one-way function. A function is one-way if it is easy to compute but hard for any efficient adversary to invert on average. The first half of the book shows how to construct a pseudorandom generator from any one-way function. Building on this, the second half of the book shows how to construct other useful cryptographic primitives, such as private key cryptosystems, pseudorandom function generators, pseudorandom permutation generators, digital signature schemes, bit commitment protocols, and zero-knowledge interactive proof systems. The book stresses rigorous definitions and proofs.




Michael Luby is the Leader of the Theory Group and a Research Scientist at the International Computer Science Institute in Berkeley, California. He is also an Adjunct Professor in the Computer Science Division at the University of California, Berkeley.






      			The Logician and the Engineer: How George Boole and Claude Shannon Created the Information Age How two pioneers of math and technology ushered in the computer revolution

Boolean algebra, also called Boolean logic, is at the heart of the electronic circuitry in everything we use—from our computers and cars, to home appliances. How did a system of mathematics established in the Victorian era become the basis for such incredible technological achievements a century later? In The Logician and the Engineer, Paul Nahin combines engaging problems and a colorful historical narrative to tell the remarkable story of how two men in different eras—mathematician and philosopher George Boole and electrical engineer and pioneering information theorist Claude Shannon—advanced Boolean logic and became founding fathers of the electronic communications age. Nahin takes readers from fundamental concepts to a deeper and more sophisticated understanding of modern digital machines, in order to explore computing and its possible limitations in the twenty-first century and beyond.




Paul J. Nahin is the author of many bestselling popular math books, including Mrs. Perkins's Electric Quilt, In Praise of Simple Physics, and An Imaginary Tale (all Princeton). He is professor emeritus of electrical engineering at the University of New Hampshire.











"Meshing logic problems with the stories of two extraordinary men . . . Paul Nahin fashions a tale of innovation and discovery. Alongside a gripping account of how Shannon built on Boole's work, Nahin explores others key to the technological revolution, from Georg Cantor to Alan Turing."—Nature
"Engaging. . . . Nahin assumes some rudimentary knowledge but expertly explains concepts such as relay circuits, Turing machines, and quantum computing. Reasoning through the problems and diagrams will give persistent readers genuine aha moments and an understanding of the two revolutionaries who helped to lay the foundation of our digital world."—Scientific American
"Part biography, part history, and part a review of basic information theory, this book does an excellent job of fitting these interlocking elements together."—Library Journal
"The reader is taken on a journey from the development of some abstract mathematical ideas through a nearly ubiquitous application of those ideas within the modern world with so many embedded digital computers. . . . I enjoyed the discussion of Claude Shannon. In the history of the computer and development of the internet and World Wide Web, his ideas and contributions are too often overlooked. He is one of my heroes and I believe that everyone that reads this book will come to the same conclusion."—Charles Ashbacher, MAA Reviews
"Paul J. Nahin really knows how to tell a good story. . . . The Logician and the Engineer is truly a gem."—New York Journal of Books
"A short but fairly detailed exploration of the genesis of Boolean logic and Shannon's information theory. . . . [G]ood background reading for anyone studying electronics or computer science."—Christine Evans-Pughe, Engineering & Technology
"Although the book is technical, it is always easily understandable for anyone (for those who need it, some basic rules for electrical circuits are collected in a short appendix). It is not only understandable but also pleasantly bantering and at occasions even facetious."—A. Bultheel, European Mathematical Society
"Most valuable to this reviewer, and likely to many potential readers, is the closing chapter, aptly titled Beyond Boole and Shannon. Here is provided an introduction to quantum computing and its logic, possibly portending the future of computers, yet unmistakably bearing the footprints of the two early pioneers. It is an unexpected yet fitting conclusion to this thoroughly enjoyable read."—Ronald E. Prather, Mathematical Reviews Clippings
"Nahin has had the very good idea of connecting the very different worlds and times of Boole, Shannon, and others to demonstrate that a little Victorian algebra can turn out to be very useful."—SIAM Review
"The exposition is clear and does not assume any prior knowledge except elementary mathematics and a few basic facts from physics. I recommend this well-written book to all readers interested in the history of computer science, as well as those who are curious about the fundamental principles of digital computing."—Antonín Slavík, Zentralblatt MATH
"[T]his is a useful and often interesting introduction to the life and work of two intellectual giants who are largely unknown to the general public."—Gareth and Mary Jones, London Mathematical Society Newsletter
"The problems are varied and indeed intriguing, and the solutions are delightful."—Mathematics Magazine
"This book is not light reading. It would be excellent for advanced high school juniors or seniors with a strong interest in computer science as well as mathematics."—Tom Ottinger, Mathematics Teacher
"Nahin leavens the math and engineering with humor and an infectious intellectual curiosity, and the parallels between Boole and Shannon are convincingly drawn. . . . [The Logician and the Engineer] will give your brain a workout, but an enjoyable one."—San Francisco Book Review
"In this book, Nahin brings to life the immense practical outcomes of deep theoretical ideas. Too often, technological advances are seen as isolated inventions and the underlying mathematical and scientific infrastructure goes unappreciated. By following the story of George Boole and Claude Shannon with a lively historical style, and a futuristic extension to quantum computing, Nahin makes the connection of theory and practice into something vivid and compelling."—Andrew Hodges, author of Alan Turing: The Enigma
"From electromechanical relays to quantum computing, Nahin takes us on a delightful exploration of Boolean logic and the careers of George Boole and Claude Shannon. This is a superb book for anyone who wants to understand how that gigahertz chip in their favorite electronic doohickey really works."—Lawrence Weinstein, author of Guesstimation 2.0: Solving Today's Problems on the Back of a Napkin
"Written with the skill and ability that we have come to expect from Paul Nahin, The Logician and the Engineer is an interesting and informative account of the history of formal logic, the lives of its two great investigators, and the applications of Boolean algebra in electronic computation."—Chuck Adler, St. Mary's College





          Additional Links
      


Errata




      			The NSA Report: Liberty and Security in a Changing World The official report that has shaped the international debate about NSA surveillance"We cannot discount the risk, in light of the lessons of our own history, that at some point in the future, high-level government officials will decide that this massive database of extraordinarily sensitive private information is there for the plucking. Americans must never make the mistake of wholly 'trusting' our public officials."—The NSA Report

This is the official report that is helping shape the international debate about the unprecedented surveillance activities of the National Security Agency. Commissioned by President Obama following disclosures by former NSA contractor Edward J. Snowden, and written by a preeminent group of intelligence and legal experts, the report examines the extent of NSA programs and calls for dozens of urgent and practical reforms. The result is a blueprint showing how the government can reaffirm its commitment to privacy and civil liberties—without compromising national security.




Richard A. Clarke served as a national security official under presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. Michael J. Morell is a former deputy director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Geoffrey R. Stone is the Edward H. Levi Distinguished Service Professor of Law at the University of Chicago Law School. Cass R. Sunstein is the Robert Walmsley University Professor at Harvard University. Peter Swire is the Nancy J. and Lawrence P. Huang Professor in the Scheller College of Business at the Georgia Institute of Technology.











"A remarkably thorough and well-reasoned report calling on the government to end its bulk phone-data collection program and to increase both the transparency and accountability of surveillance programs."—New York Times
"[The] recommendations take aim at some of the most controversial practices of the intelligence community."—Washington Post
"Within the 300-page report are 46 recommendations that would dramatically curtail the National Security Agency's surveillance powers. While the proposals are specific and varied, they all echo one theme: The government's reach can no longer be limited by technological capacity alone. It must be reined in with laws and institutional reform."—Atlantic
"The report is a brilliantly readable guide to the world [Edward] Snowden revealed; its clarity of analysis, proceeding from fundamental principles, impeccable. . . . Governments around the world would do well to reflect on the principles that underpin The NSA Report and relate them to their own intelligence-gathering activities."—Kieron O'Hara and Nigel Shadbolt, Science
"The Review Board's recommendations on protecting the civil liberties of non-US persons—a relatively new aspect of the policy discussion—are incredibly welcome."—Jennifer Granick, Stanford Center for Internet and Society blog
"Fascinating insight . . . into how the nation's data-mining apparatus works—and how it's supposed to work."—Kirkus Reviews
"The NSA Report tackles some of the most important civil liberties issues of our era. Whether or not you agree with all of its recommendations, it is simply an outstanding introduction to the subject."—Jack M. Balkin, Yale Law School
"The Snowden revelations have prompted many people to wonder about what is going on, and what could be done to stop the surveillance infrastructure without crippling the nation's ability to interdict acts of terror. This report, written by world-class experts, provides a valuable explanation and assessment of the situation—and how best to address it. It could turn into the seminal report on the issue—an issue central to liberal democracy."—Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, University of Oxford
"This is an extraordinarily important report, reflecting a synthesis of viewpoints from luminaries in the fields of law, privacy, and national security. The report's recommendations are serious and extensive and will continue to influence the U.S. and other governments as they grapple with the problems and opportunities raised by all-pervasive surveillance."—Frank Pasquale, University of Maryland


      			Hot Molecules, Cold Electrons: From the Mathematics of Heat to the Development of the Trans-Atlantic Telegraph Cable An entertaining mathematical exploration of the heat equation and its role in the triumphant development of the trans-Atlantic telegraph cable

Heat, like gravity, shapes nearly every aspect of our world and universe, from how milk dissolves in coffee to how molten planets cool. The heat equation, a cornerstone of modern physics, demystifies such processes, painting a mathematical picture of the way heat diffuses through matter. Presenting the mathematics and history behind the heat equation, Hot Molecules, Cold Electrons tells the remarkable story of how this foundational idea brought about one of the greatest technological advancements of the modern era.Paul Nahin vividly recounts the heat equation’s tremendous influence on society, showing how French mathematical physicist Joseph Fourier discovered, derived, and solved the equation in the early nineteenth century. Nahin then follows Scottish physicist William Thomson, whose further analysis of Fourier’s explorations led to the pioneering trans-Atlantic telegraph cable. This feat of engineering reduced the time it took to send a message across the ocean from weeks to minutes. Readers also learn that Thomson used Fourier’s solutions to calculate the age of the earth, and, in a bit of colorful lore, that writer Charles Dickens relied on the trans-Atlantic cable to save himself from a career-damaging scandal. The book’s mathematical and scientific explorations can be easily understood by anyone with a basic knowledge of high school calculus and physics, and MATLAB code is included to aid readers who would like to solve the heat equation themselves.A testament to the intricate links between mathematics and physics, Hot Molecules, Cold Electrons offers a fascinating glimpse into the relationship between a formative equation and one of the most important developments in the history of human communication.




Paul J. Nahin is the author of many popular math books, including How to Fall Slower Than Gravity, Dr. Euler’s Fabulous Formula, and An Imaginary Tale (all Princeton). He is professor emeritus of electrical engineering at the University of New Hampshire and received the 2017 Chandler Davis Prize for Excellence in Expository Writing in Mathematics. He lives in Exeter, New Hampshire.











"[A] treat . . . I think that students studying this material would not only find Paul’s treatments easy to follow, but would benefit greatly by learning something of the history that surrounds the development of the analysis and applications of the heat equation."—Jim Stein, New Books in Mathematics
"Nahin knows how to write a book mixing physics and (a lot of) mathematics and (still) make it readable."—Adhemar Bultheel, European Mathematical Society
"Hot Molecules, Cold Electrons has provided me with a new perspective on what I thought to be a rather tedious topic. . . . I would recommend it to anyone who wants to work out their maths muscles and learn something along the way."—Louis Ammon, Chemistry World
"Introducing readers to some of the most important scientific questions and technological challenges of the nineteenth century, this delightful book shows how they were solved using the heat equation. Reliving this exciting period through letters, stories, and insights, Hot Molecules, Cold Electrons is a triumphant success."—Christopher Tully, author of Elementary Particle Physics in a Nutshell
"This enjoyable book tells the story of Fourier series and transforms, their role in solving the heat equation, and subsequent applications. Providing a multitude of takeaways, Paul Nahin masterfully moves back and forth between the mathematical advances involved in the development and usage of Fourier analysis and the historical events and characters associated with the field."—Oscar Fernandez, author of Calculus Simplified
"Hot Molecules, Cold Electrons vividly demonstrates the power of mathematical tools for studying the heat equation in connection to the trans-Atlantic cable. This excellent book will be useful to anyone with an interest in mathematics, physics, or engineering."—Yasuyuki Kawahigashi, University of Tokyo
"This well-written book offers a basic introduction to harmonic analysis and the history of the heat equation, one of the major achievements of the nineteenth century. Filled with numerous interesting historical capsules, Hot Molecules, Cold Electrons is a beautiful work."—Rafael Benguria, Pontifical Catholic University of Chile


      			An Internet for the People: The Politics and Promise of craigslist How craigslist champions openness, democracy, and other vanishing principles of the early web













 
Begun by Craig Newmark as an e-mail to some friends about cool events happening around San Francisco, craigslist is now the leading classifieds service on the planet. It is also a throwback to the early internet. The website has barely seen an upgrade since it launched in 1996. There are no banner ads. The company doesn’t profit off your data. An Internet for the People explores how people use craigslist to buy and sell, find work, and find love—and reveals why craigslist is becoming a lonely outpost in an increasingly corporatized web.Drawing on interviews with craigslist insiders and ordinary users, Jessa Lingel looks at the site’s history and values, showing how it has mostly stayed the same while the web around it has become more commercial and far less open. She examines craigslist’s legal history, describing the company’s courtroom battles over issues of freedom of expression and data privacy, and explains the importance of locality in the social relationships fostered by the site. More than an online garage sale, job board, or dating site, craigslist holds vital lessons for the rest of the web. It is a website that values user privacy over profits, ease of use over slick design, and an ethos of the early web that might just hold the key to a more open, transparent, and democratic internet.

Craigslist's lessons for a weirder, more ethical internet





Jessa Lingel is assistant professor of communication at the University of Pennsylvania. She is the author of Digital Countercultures and the Struggle for Community. She lives in Philadelphia.











"To understand contemporary fears, anxieties, and fantasies about the internet, people need to understand craigslist, a site that embodies a set of 1990s values about the internet that seem alien today. In An Internet for the People, Jessa Lingel offers a rich examination of craigslist, including both its strengths and flaws. This insightful book connects the past to the present in order to inform those who care about the future."—danah boyd, author of It's Complicated: The Social Lives of Networked Teens
"Lingel fills a gap in current scholarship by providing both a historical and ethnographic account of craigslist, a site that has attained almost mythological status in the popular history of the web. This comprehensive, interdisciplinary, and lucid book is a model for how internet research should be done."—Siva Vaidhyanathan, author of Antisocial Media: How Facebook Disconnects Us and Undermines Democracy
"Lingel astutely reveals the visions and values at the heart of an influential yet understudied platform that has pursued a different path than the data-aggregating, advertising-oriented giants that get almost all the attention these days. The book will change how we think about internet platforms in general."—Thomas Streeter, author of The Net Effect: Romanticism, Capitalism, and the Internet


      			Metrics at Work: Journalism and the Contested Meaning of Algorithms The starkly different ways that American and French online news companies respond to audience analytics and what this means for the future of news

When the news moved online, journalists suddenly learned what their audiences actually liked, through algorithmic technologies that scrutinize web traffic and activity. Has this advent of audience metrics changed journalists’ work practices and professional identities? In Metrics at Work, Angèle Christin documents the ways that journalists grapple with audience data in the form of clicks, and analyzes how new forms of clickbait journalism travel across national borders.Drawing on four years of fieldwork in web newsrooms in the United States and France, including more than one hundred interviews with journalists, Christin reveals many similarities among the media groups examined—their editorial goals, technological tools, and even office furniture. Yet she uncovers crucial and paradoxical differences in how American and French journalists understand audience analytics and how these affect the news produced in each country. American journalists routinely disregard traffic numbers and primarily rely on the opinion of their peers to define journalistic quality. Meanwhile, French journalists fixate on internet traffic and view these numbers as a sign of their resonance in the public sphere. Christin offers cultural and historical explanations for these disparities, arguing that distinct journalistic traditions structure how journalists make sense of digital measurements in the two countries.Contrary to the popular belief that analytics and algorithms are globally homogenizing forces, Metrics at Work shows that computational technologies can have surprisingly divergent ramifications for work and organizations worldwide.

Q&A with Angèle Christin





Angèle Christin is assistant professor of communication and, by courtesy, of sociology at Stanford University. Website www.angelechristin.com Twitter @AngeleChristin






"An illuminating journey into the making of digital news, Metrics at Work shows how the subtle nudges of clicks and page views can upend a century of journalistic practice. Christin provides nuance to the complexity underneath the transformation of the news ecosystem, helping readers appreciate the contradictory incentives and everyday practices that shape what information we read."—danah boyd, author of It's Complicated: The Social Lives of Networked Teens
"Metrics at Work offers unique and persuasive insights into the inner workings of online journalism in dramatically shifting technological times. The book vividly explains journalists’ struggles in creating clickable news while remaining committed to their profession. An extremely timely read in light of the spread of fake news and the tectonic changes journalists are dealing with."—Michel Anteby, author of Manufacturing Morals: The Values of Silence in Business School Education
"Comparing digital news websites in the United States and France, Metrics at Work shows that technological convergence (the adoption of similar audience algorithmic metrics) does not lead to uniform attitudes toward these technologies. Christin writes beautifully and her interviews and observations enliven the narrative and analysis. This strong book will generate lively debate."—Rodney Benson, author of Shaping Immigration News: A French-American Comparison


      			A Hierarchy of Turing Degrees: A Transfinite Hierarchy of Lowness Notions in the Computably Enumerable Degrees, Unifying Classes, and Natural Definability (AMS-206) 

Computability theory is a branch of mathematical logic and computer science that has become increasingly relevant in recent years. The field has developed growing connections in diverse areas of mathematics, with applications in topology, group theory, and other subfields.In A Hierarchy of Turing Degrees, Rod Downey and Noam Greenberg introduce a new hierarchy that allows them to classify the combinatorics of constructions from many areas of computability theory, including algorithmic randomness, Turing degrees, effectively closed sets, and effective structure theory. This unifying hierarchy gives rise to new natural definability results for Turing degree classes, demonstrating how dynamic constructions become reflected in definability. Downey and Greenberg present numerous construction techniques involving high-level nonuniform arguments, and their self-contained work is appropriate for graduate students and researchers.Blending traditional and modern research results in computability theory, A Hierarchy of Turing Degrees establishes novel directions in the field.




Rod Downey and Noam Greenberg are professors of mathematics at Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand. Downey is the coauthor of Parameterized Complexity, Algorithmic Randomness and Complexity, and Fundamentals of Parameterized Complexity. Greenberg is the author of The Role of True Finiteness in the Admissible Recursively Enumerable Degrees.






      			Who's #1?: The Science of Rating and Ranking 

A website’s ranking on Google can spell the difference between success and failure for a new business. NCAA football ratings determine which schools get to play for the big money in postseason bowl games. Product ratings influence everything from the clothes we wear to the movies we select on Netflix. Ratings and rankings are everywhere, but how exactly do they work? Who’s #1? offers an engaging and accessible account of how scientific rating and ranking methods are created and applied to a variety of uses. Amy Langville and Carl Meyer provide the first comprehensive overview of the mathematical algorithms and methods used to rate and rank sports teams, political candidates, products, Web pages, and more. In a series of interesting asides, Langville and Meyer provide fascinating insights into the ingenious contributions of many of the field’s pioneers. They survey and compare the different methods employed today, showing why their strengths and weaknesses depend on the underlying goal, and explaining why and when a given method should be considered. Langville and Meyer also describe what can and can’t be expected from the most widely used systems. The science of rating and ranking touches virtually every facet of our lives, and now you don’t need to be an expert to understand how it really works. Who’s #1? is the definitive introduction to the subject. It features easy-to-understand examples and interesting trivia and historical facts, and much of the required mathematics is included.




Amy N. Langville is associate professor of mathematics at the College of Charleston. Carl D. Meyer is professor of mathematics at North Carolina State University. They are the authors of Google's PageRank and Beyond: The Science of Search Engine Rankings (Princeton).











"[A] thorough exploration of the methods and applications of ranking for an audience ranging from computer scientists and engineers to high-school teachers to 'people interested in wagering on just about anything'."—Nature Physics
"Who's #1 provides a fascinating tour through the world of rankings and is highly recommended."—Richard J. Wilders, MAA Reviews
"[T]he book . . . provide[s] an excellent, accessible, and stimulating discussion of the material it does cover. Overall, the book makes a valuable addition to the canon of rating and ranking."—David J. Hand, Journal of Applied Statistics
"This book provides an interesting overview of ranking various sports teams, chess players, politicians, and the like in real-life circumstances, which typically involve serious constraints on the time available to find the optimal ranking."—Choice
"The book could be used to supplement a course on linear algebra and/or numerical linear algebra. . . . The book could also be used as the basis for a short topics course or undergraduate research project on ranking, or it could be used in a modeling class as an example of how mathematical modeling is done. In addition to describing the mathematics of ranking, the book is full of interesting tidbits that add to the pleasure of its reading."—James Keener, SIAM Review
"When I started this book I knew very little about American football. I was little the wiser after finishing it, but I had an excellent understanding of various methods used in the obtaining of the ranking of teams and their interrelationships. Langville and Meyer are to be commended for this collection, and anyone who is more conversant with North American sports than I am will most certainly be stimulated by reading Who's #1?"—Andrew I. Dale, Notices of the AMS
"Readers will find many interesting ideas as they grapple with the complexities of the science of rating and ranking."—Bob Horton, Mathematics Teacher
"[T]his book is a call to consciousness on the relevance of rating and ranking as well as an enjoyable start-up guide from the point of view of algebraic methods."—Francisco Grimaldo Moreno, JASSS
"This book is a great introduction to the field (including its constituent parts in linear algebra and data mining) and contains enough depth to be used as a supplemental book in a data mining course or as a jumping off point for an interested researcher. . . . Overall this is a very nice, well written book that could be use in multiple ways by a wide variety of audiences."—Nicholas Mattei, SigAct News
"The profit the scientometrics community can gain from this book is an indirect one: an attitude how to compile a systematic collection of potential methods, how to select carefully using theoretical tests and empirical examples and how to combine methods to get a comprehensive, multidimensional rating and ranking system. In this sense, it is a highly recommended reading for all readers of the journal Scientometrics."—Andras Schubert, Scientometrics
"This book is an excellent read for everyone; readers might be sports enthusiasts, social choice theorists, mathematicians, computer scientists, engineers, and college and high school teachers. Teachers will find quite an easy way to extract material for a short module."—Valentina Dagiene, Zentralblatt MATH
"Who's #1? is an excellent survey of the fundamental ideas behind mathematical rating systems. Once a realm of sports enthusiasts, ranking things is becoming a vital tool in many information-age applications. Langville and Meyer compare and contrast a variety of models, explaining the mathematical foundations and motivation. Readers of this book will be inspired to further explore this exciting field."—Kenneth Massey, Massey Ratings
"Langville and Meyer provide a rigorous yet lighthearted tour through the landscape of ratings methodologies. This is an enjoyable read that looks at ratings through the lens of sports, but also touches on how ratings affect our everyday lives through movies, Web search, online shopping, and other applications."—Chris Volinsky, member of the winning Netflix Prize team
"Who's #1? provides a much-needed synthesis of the methods used for ranking and rating things like sports teams, movies, politicians, and more. There is a ton of interest in this topic, and readers now have one place to look for a comprehensive treatment of the different approaches."—Wayne L. Winston, author of Mathletics: How Gamblers, Managers, and Sports Enthusiasts Use Mathematics in Baseball, Basketball, and Football
"This highly accessible book gives readers a comprehensive account of the different mathematical ranking techniques across many different disciplines, and will appeal to everyone from researchers to sports statistics junkies."—Sep Kamvar, author of Numerical Algorithms for Personalized Search in Self-organizing Information Networks


      			The Technology Trap: Capital, Labor, and Power in the Age of Automation "Made me look at the industrial revolution, invention, sleeping beauties, contexts and the forces that shape our societies differently."—David Byrne, New York Times Book ReviewHow the history of technological revolutions can help us better understand economic and political polarization in the age of automation 

The Technology Trap is a sweeping account of the history of technological progress and how it has radically shifted the distribution of economic and political power among society’s members. As Carl Benedikt Frey shows, the Industrial Revolution created unprecedented wealth and prosperity over the long run, but the immediate consequences of mechanization were devastating. Middle-income jobs withered, wages stagnated, the labor share of income fell, profits surged, and economic inequality skyrocketed. These trends broadly mirror those in our current age of automation. But, just as the Industrial Revolution eventually brought about extraordinary benefits for society, artificial intelligence systems have the potential to do the same. The Technology Trap demonstrates that in the midst of another technological revolution, the lessons of the past can help us to more effectively face the present.




Carl Benedikt Frey is the Oxford Martin Citi Fellow and codirector of the Oxford Martin Programme on Technology and Employment at the Oxford Martin School, University of Oxford. Twitter @carlbfrey











"Frey’s story is well argued and—at times—deeply alarming."—John Thornhill, Financial Times
"An excellent analysis of past industrial revolutions, the technologies that emerged within them, and the way societies adapted to those changes."—Adi Gaskell, Forbes
"The Technology Trap may well ensnare doom-seekers’ attention with its ominous-sounding title. But it should ultimately hearten anyone who reads it."—The Economist
"A provocative, original long view on current concerns."—Andrew Hill, Financial Times
"Bracing . . . Carl Frey extrapolates from the history of the industrial revolution to offer a vision of the future in which Amazon Go, AI assistants and autonomous vehicles are 'worker replacement' technologies."—Greg Williams, Wired
"An important book. . . . Frey is erudite and thoughtful."—Joel Mokyr, Journal of Economic History


      			Nine Algorithms That Changed the Future: The Ingenious Ideas That Drive Today's Computers Nine revolutionary algorithms that power our computers and smartphones













 
Every day, we use our computers to perform remarkable feats. A simple web search picks out a handful of relevant needles from the world’s biggest haystack. Uploading a photo to Facebook transmits millions of pieces of information over numerous error-prone network links, yet somehow a perfect copy of the photo arrives intact. Without even knowing it, we use public-key cryptography to transmit secret information like credit card numbers, and we use digital signatures to verify the identity of the websites we visit. How do our computers perform these tasks with such ease? John MacCormick answers this question in language anyone can understand, using vivid examples to explain the fundamental tricks behind nine computer algorithms that power our PCs, tablets, and smartphones.




John MacCormick is associate professor of computer science at Dickinson College and a leading teacher, researcher, and writer in his field. His books include What Can Be Computed? A Practical Guide to the Theory of Computation (Princeton).











"A great way to find out what computer science is really about. . . . MacCormick provides a taste of why we computer scientists get so excited about algorithms."—Paul Curzon, Science
"Excellent. . . . This is an unusually well-written text suitable for anyone with an interest in how today's information systems really work."—John Gilbey, Times Higher Education
"MacCormick leaves the reader with a sense of the engine that powers the networked world."—Kevin Slavin, New Scientist
"There's likely no better account of the software that underpins everything from Amazon to Facebook."—Brett Szmajda, Cosmos





          Additional Links
      


Individual Illustrations and Figures (zipped file)


Illustrations and Figures (pdf)




      			Games for Your Mind: The History and Future of Logic Puzzles A lively and engaging look at logic puzzles and their role in recreation, mathematics, and philosophy

Logic puzzles were first introduced to the public by Lewis Carroll in the late nineteenth century and have been popular ever since. Games like Sudoku and Mastermind are fun and engrossing recreational activities, but they also share deep foundations in mathematical logic and are worthy of serious intellectual inquiry. Games for Your Mind explores the history and future of logic puzzles while enabling you to test your skill against a variety of puzzles yourself.In this informative and entertaining book, Jason Rosenhouse begins by introducing readers to logic and logic puzzles and goes on to reveal the rich history of these puzzles. He shows how Carroll’s puzzles presented Aristotelian logic as a game for children, yet also informed his scholarly work on logic. He reveals how another pioneer of logic puzzles, Raymond Smullyan, drew on classic puzzles about liars and truthtellers to illustrate Kurt Gödel’s theorems and illuminate profound questions in mathematical logic. Rosenhouse then presents a new vision for the future of logic puzzles based on nonclassical logic, which is used today in computer science and automated reasoning to manipulate large and sometimes contradictory sets of data.Featuring a wealth of sample puzzles ranging from simple to extremely challenging, this lively and engaging book brings together many of the most ingenious puzzles ever devised, including the “Hardest Logic Puzzle Ever,” metapuzzles, paradoxes, and the logic puzzles in detective stories.

Can logic be fun? 





Jason Rosenhouse is professor of mathematics at James Madison University. He is the author of The Monty Hall Problem: The Remarkable Story of Math's Most Contentious Brain Teaser and Among the Creationists: Dispatches from the Anti-Evolutionist Front Line. He is the coauthor (with Laura Taalman) of Taking Sudoku Seriously: The Math behind the World's Most Popular Pencil Puzzle and the coeditor (with Jennifer Beineke) of The Mathematics of Various Entertaining Subjects (Vols. 1–3) (Princeton).











"Fascinating. . . . Part philosophy, part maths, part activity book; Games for Your Mind is an ingenious thing."—Amy Barrett, BBC Science Focus Magazine
"Excellent."—Elizabeth Palmer, Christian Century
"Logic is one of the most important subjects in mathematics and Jason Rosenhouse's welcoming style makes it easy to understand. A fantastic achievement!"—James Grime, presenter of Numberphile
"Games for Your Mind combines the whimsy of Lewis Carroll with the cleverness of Raymond Smullyan along with very accessible mathematics, delivered with clarity and humor by award-winning author Jason Rosenhouse. Highly recommended for anyone interested in learning about logic in an engaging way."—Arthur Benjamin, Harvey Mudd College
"Rosenhouse deftly traces the entire history of logic from Aristotle to Raymond Smullyan. For readers who quail at the thought of logic or math yet love Sudoku, puzzles, paradoxes, and the deductive world of Sherlock Holmes, this book delivers an accessible introduction while exploring logic's perils and joys in greater depth."—Mark Burstein, president emeritus, Lewis Carroll Society of North America
"What starts out as a garden tour of classical logic puzzles takes a turn down the rabbit hole into nonclassical logic, paradoxes, and metapuzzles, with Rosenhouse as an expert and enjoyable guide."—Laura Taalman, coauthor of Taking Sudoku Seriously: The Math behind the World's Most Popular Pencil Puzzle
"A uniquely personal whirlwind tour of logic ancient and modern, spiced with puzzles from two of the greats, Lewis Carroll and Raymond Smullyan. Almost every reader will find material he or she would never otherwise have encountered."—Peter Winkler, author of Mathematical Puzzles: A Connoisseur's Collection and Mathematical Mind-Benders
"This book is a pleasure. All aspects of logic are explained in a clear and engaging manner, with many humorous touches, and Rosenhouse handles the philosophical aspects of logic just as skillfully as the mathematical ones. Games for Your Mind is a great introduction to logic for anyone who likes puzzles."—John Stillwell, author of Reverse Mathematics: Proofs from the Inside Out
"Rosenhouse presents a rich variety of logic puzzles while introducing readers to the history of logic. Games for Your Mind is an engaging and accessible book that will appeal to people attracted to logic and can open a gate to more serious study as well."—Michał Walicki, author of Introduction to Mathematical Logic


      			Digital Dice: Computational Solutions to Practical Probability Problems 

Some probability problems are so difficult that they stump the smartest mathematicians. But even the hardest of these problems can often be solved with a computer and a Monte Carlo simulation, in which a random-number generator simulates a physical process, such as a million rolls of a pair of dice. This is what Digital Dice is all about: how to get numerical answers to difficult probability problems without having to solve complicated mathematical equations.  Popular-math writer Paul Nahin challenges readers to solve twenty-one difficult but fun problems, from determining the odds of coin-flipping games to figuring out the behavior of elevators. Problems build from relatively easy (deciding whether a dishwasher who breaks most of the dishes at a restaurant during a given week is clumsy or just the victim of randomness) to the very difficult (tackling branching processes of the kind that had to be solved by Manhattan Project mathematician Stanislaw Ulam). In his characteristic style, Nahin brings the problems to life with interesting and odd historical anecdotes. Readers learn, for example, not just how to determine the optimal stopping point in any selection process but that astronomer Johannes Kepler selected his second wife by interviewing eleven women. The book shows readers how to write elementary computer codes using any common programming language, and provides solutions and line-by-line walk-throughs of a MATLAB code for each problem. Digital Dice will appeal to anyone who enjoys popular math or computer science. In a new preface, Nahin wittily addresses some of the responses he received to the first edition.




Paul J. Nahin is the author of many best-selling popular-math books, including Chases and Escapes, Dr. Euler's Fabulous Formula, When Least is Best, Duelling Idiots and Other Probability Puzzlers, and An Imaginary Tale (all Princeton). He is professor emeritus of electrical engineering at the University of New Hampshire.











"The problems are accessible but still realistic enough to be engaging, and the solutions in the back of the book will get you through any sticky spots. Writing your own versions of a few of these programs will acquaint you with a useful approach to problem solving and a novel style of thinking."—Brian Hayes, American Scientist
"Digital Dice will appeal to recreational mathematicians who have even a limited knowledge of computer programming, and even nonprogrammers will find most of the problems entertaining to ponder."—Games Magazine
"[An] enjoyable read, as [Nahin] writes clearly, with humour and is not afraid to include equations where necessary. Nahin spices the book throughout with factual and anecdotal snippets. Digital Dice will appeal to all who like recreational mathematics."—Alan Stevens, Mathematics Today
"[T]he book is targeted at teachers and students of probability theory or computer science, as well as aficionados of recreational mathematics, but anyone who is familiar with the basics of probability and is capable of writing simple computer programs will have no problem working their way through this interesting and rewarding book."—Physics World
"After the appearance of the author's earlier book on probability problems, [Duelling Idiots And Other Probability Puzzlers], one has high expectations for this book, and one is not disappointed. . . . The book will certainly have great appeal to all three of the targeted audiences."—G A. Hewer, Mathematical Reviews
"This well-written entertaining collection of twenty-one probability problems presents their origin and history as well as their computer solutions. . . . These problems could be used in a computer programming course or a probability course that includes Monte Carlo simulations."—Thomas Sonnabend, Mathematics Teacher
"All of the books by Nahin and Havil are worth having, including others not listed here. I particularly recommend Digital Dice for the task of teaching undergraduates in mathematics the fundamentals of computation and simulation."—James M. Cargal, The UMAP Journal
"Paul Nahin's Digital Dice is a marvelous book, one that is even better than his Duelling Idiots. Nahin presents twenty-one great probability problems, from George Gamow's famous elevator paradox (as corrected by Donald Knuth) to a bewildering puzzle involving two rolls of toilet paper, and he solves them all with the aid of Monte Carlo simulations and brilliant, impeccable reasoning."—Martin Gardner
"Nahin's new book is a rich source of tantalizing, real-life probability puzzles that require considerable ingenuity, and in most cases computer simulation, to solve. Though written to be delved into rather than read cover-to-cover, Digital Dice has an engaging and often witty style that makes each chapter a pleasurable read."—Keith Devlin, author of The Math Gene and The Math Instinct
"Open this delightful, matchless book to be sucked into a treasure trove of wonderful conundrums of everyday life. Then, persuaded by straightforward Monte Carlo simulation exercises, emerge refreshed, invigorated, and fully satisfied by the unique experience of learning from Nahin's marvelous Digital Dice."—Joseph Mazur, author of The Motion Paradox
"One of the strengths of Digital Dice is its wealth of historical information. Nahin carefully notes the origin of each problem and traces its history. He also tells a number of amusing anecdotes. I found all the problems interesting, especially Parrondo's Paradox. Anyone who has not met this paradox will be amazed by it! Digital Dice is a very enjoyable read."—Nick Hobson, creator of the award-winning Web site Nick's Mathematical Puzzles
"By presenting problems for which complete theoretical analysis is difficult or currently impossible, Digital Dice is a reminder that mathematics is often advanced by investigation, long before theoretical tools are brought to bear. The book's choice of problems is eclectic and interesting, and the explanations are clear and easy to read. A welcome addition to popular mathematical literature."—Julian Havil, author of Nonplussed!: Mathematical Proof of Implausible Ideas





          Additional Links
      


MATLAB codes (open each file with either Notepad or Wordpad.)




      			Access to Knowledge in the Age of Intellectual Property		

The end of the twentieth century saw an explosive intrusion of intellectual property law into everyday life. Expansive copyright laws have been used to attack new forms of sharing and remixing facilitated by the Internet. International laws extending the patent rights of pharmaceutical companies have threatened the lives of millions of people around the world living with HIV/AIDS. For decades, governments have tightened the grip of intellectual property law at the bidding of information industries.

Recently, a multitude of groups around the world have emerged to challenge this wave of enclosure with a new counterpolitics of “access to knowledge” or “A2K.” They include software programmers who take to the streets to attack software patents, AIDS activists who fight for generic medicines in poor countries, subsistence farmers who defend their right to food security and seeds, and college students who have created a new “free culture” movement to defend the digital commons.

In this volume, Gaëlle Krikorian and Amy Kapczynski have created the first anthology of the A2K movement, mapping this emerging field of activism as a series of historical moments, strategies, and concepts. Intellectual property law has become not only a site of new forms of transnational activism, but also a locus for profound new debates and struggles over politics, economics, and freedom. This collection vividly brings these debates into view and makes the terms of intellectual property law legible in their political implications around the world.








"Like so much within the A2K debates, this comes down to a matter of opinion, political stance, economic position, and more; in short, how one views the present social reality, and what one holds as a social ideal. This collection is vitally important, then, in that there is much here to help us make our opinions more informed ones, even while it illustrates how there are no easy answers to the relevant questions."—Rain Taxi Review of Books
“It’s hard to believe that the ‘definitive’ book has already been written about a movement as new as A2K. It’s even more unusual for an edited collection of essays to have the power of a monograph. But this collection of essays is both the definitive explanation of the access to knowledge movement and a beautifully constructed conversation about the various ideas, conceptual, political and organizational, that make it up. From Amy Kapczynski’s superb overview, to Yochai Benkler’s brilliant meditation on the commons, to Lawrence Liang’s superbly titled ‘The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Book,’ the central ideas of A2K are laid out with a freshness and power that is remarkable. And the rest of the contributors in the essays gathered here are just as strong. This is a must-have for university libraries, but it is also something that will be read intently, tactically, and sometimes uneasily, in venues ranging from WIPO to the university classroom. Highly recommended.”— James Boyle, Duke University, author of The Public Domain

“This is the first book of its kind. It comprehensively describes the intellectual contours of a powerful and emerging social movement and serves as a handbook for activism. The A2K movement is disparate and diverse. So assembling a volume that takes account of its various strands and influences is no small task. Gaëlle Krikorian and Amy Kapczynski have selected works from the most influential writers and practitioners of this new distributed politics. I will certainly assign this book to my survey course next year.”— Siva Vaidhyanathan, University of Virginia, author of The Googlization of Everything



      			Understanding the Digital World: What You Need to Know about Computers, the Internet, Privacy, and Security, Second Edition A brand-new edition of the popular introductory textbook that explores how computer hardware, software, and networks work

Computers are everywhere. Some are highly visible, in laptops, tablets, cell phones, and smart watches. But most are invisible, like those in appliances, cars, medical equipment, transportation systems, power grids, and weapons. We never see the myriad computers that quietly collect, share, and sometimes leak personal data about us. Governments and companies increasingly use computers to monitor what we do. Social networks and advertisers know more about us than we should be comfortable with. Criminals have all-too-easy access to our data. Do we truly understand the power of computers in our world?In this updated edition of Understanding the Digital World, Brian Kernighan explains how computer hardware, software, and networks work. Topics include how computers are built and how they compute; what programming is; how the Internet and web operate; and how all of these affect security, privacy, property, and other important social, political, and economic issues. Kernighan touches on fundamental ideas from computer science and some of the inherent limitations of computers, and new sections in the book explore Python programming, big data, machine learning, and much more. Numerous color illustrations, notes on sources for further exploration, and a glossary explaining technical terms and buzzwords are included.Understanding the Digital World is a must-read for readers of all backgrounds who want to know more about computers and communications.




Brian W. Kernighan is a professor in the Department of Computer Science at Princeton University. His many books include Millions, Billions, Zillions (Princeton) and the computing classic The C Programming Language (Prentice Hall).











Praise for the previous edition"This is the clearest and simplest explanation of the world we now all depend on—how it works and why it does what it does—from one of our best-known inventors. Everyone on Earth needs to read it."—Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Alphabet Inc. and Google“[Kernighan's] credentials as a computer scientist are stellar but what comes through in this book is a humanitarian concern about the place of technology in the modern world. . . . The grounding [the book] provides in the fundamentals of computing and how the technology interacts with our lives will remain relevant for a very long time.”—Steve Mansfield-Devine, Network Security"This book takes the mystery out of computers and the Internet, and everyone can learn from it. With a friendly and accessible style, Kernighan connects what is happening inside machines to the news of the day and developments about the digital world."—Harry Lewis, coauthor of Blown to Bits: Your Life, Liberty, and Happiness after the Digital Explosion"Kernighan tells us exactly what we need to know about computers and computer science, focusing on ideas that are useful and interesting for everyday computer users. He covers a fascinating range of topics, including fundamentals such as computer hardware, programming, algorithms, and networks, as well as politically charged issues related to government surveillance, privacy, and Internet neutrality."—John MacCormick, Dickinson College"Understanding the Digital World provides a broad overview of computers and electronic communications for a general audience. The book flows smoothly from topic to topic, and readers from diverse backgrounds will find it accessible."—Bryan Respass, Bergen County Academies


      			Breaking the Social Media Prism: How to Make Our Platforms Less Polarizing A revealing look at how user behavior is powering deep social divisions online—and how we might yet defeat political tribalism on social media














 
In an era of increasing social isolation, platforms like Facebook and Twitter are among the most important tools we have to understand each other. We use social media as a mirror to decipher our place in society but, as Chris Bail explains, it functions more like a prism that distorts our identities, empowers status-seeking extremists, and renders moderates all but invisible. Breaking the Social Media Prism challenges common myths about echo chambers, foreign misinformation campaigns, and radicalizing algorithms, revealing that the solution to political tribalism lies deep inside ourselves.

Drawing on innovative online experiments and in-depth interviews with social media users from across the political spectrum, this book explains why stepping outside of our echo chambers can make us more polarized, not less. Bail takes you inside the minds of online extremists through vivid narratives that trace their lives on the platforms and off—detailing how they dominate public discourse at the expense of the moderate majority. Wherever you stand on the spectrum of user behavior and political opinion, he offers fresh solutions to counter political tribalism from the bottom up and the top down. He introduces new apps and bots to help readers avoid misperceptions and engage in better conversations with the other side. Finally, he explores what the virtual public square might look like if we could hit “reset” and redesign social media from scratch through a first-of-its-kind experiment on a new social media platform built for scientific research.

Providing data-driven recommendations for strengthening our social media connections, Breaking the Social Media Prism shows how to combat online polarization without deleting our accounts.




Chris Bail is professor of sociology and public policy at Duke University, where he directs the Polarization Lab. He is the author of Terrified: How Anti-Muslim Fringe Organizations Became Mainstream (Princeton). Website chrisbail.net Twitter @chris_bail












"[Bail] draws on extensive interviews with social media users to explore the profound differences between people’s online and real-life personas, and lucidly details his own efforts to develop a new social media platform that cultivates more civil discourse. This is a persuasive and well-informed look at one of today’s most pressing social issues."—Publishers Weekly
"Provides useful pointers for understanding online (mis)behavior."—Kirkus Reviews
"[A] brilliant case . . . for social science research."—Library Journal
"In this important and accessible book, Chris Bail shows that if you want to understand what's going on online, don't focus on people's exposure to information. Keep your eye on their quest for status and group identity. The book is rich with insights for anyone who uses social media and is essential reading for anyone who wants to improve our democracy."—Jonathan Haidt, author of The Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion

"In this brilliant book, Chris Bail—one of the world's leading computational social scientists—brings deep sociological knowledge, cutting-edge research, and profound empathy to one of society's most vexing problems: the increasingly polarized and uncivil nature of political discussion. Engagingly written and brimming with insight, Breaking the Social Media Prism is essential reading for anyone wanting to understand how we got here and how we might escape."—Duncan J. Watts, author of Everything Is Obvious

"A pathbreaking book about how social media distorts our view of politics, polarization, and people, including those we define ourselves against. Breaking the Social Media Prism illuminates a path out of the echo chamber and offers new ways to see the world, going beyond the numbers to reveal the gap between the things we say online and the things we do in real life."—Eric Klinenberg, author of Palaces for the People

"Incredibly powerful. In this timely, well-written, and brilliant book, Christopher Bail explains why it is up to people, not platforms, to fix the problem of social media echo chambers distorting American politics."—James N. Druckman, Payson S. Wild Professor of Political Science, Northwestern University

"A tour de force. Breaking the Social Media Prism is a must-read for anyone who wishes to understand our current political climate and engage in positive social and political change."—Mabel Berezin, Cornell University, author of Illiberal Politics in Neoliberal Times: Culture, Security, and Populism in the New Europe






          Additional Links
      


The Polarization Lab at Duke University




      			The Self-Assembling Brain: How Neural Networks Grow Smarter What neurobiology and artificial intelligence tell us about how the brain builds itself 

How does a neural network become a brain? While neurobiologists investigate how nature accomplishes this feat, computer scientists interested in artificial intelligence strive to achieve this through technology. The Self-Assembling Brain tells the stories of both fields, exploring the historical and modern approaches taken by the scientists pursuing answers to the quandary: What information is necessary to make an intelligent neural network?As Peter Robin Hiesinger argues, “the information problem” underlies both fields, motivating the questions driving forward the frontiers of research. How does genetic information unfold during the years-long process of human brain development—and is there a quicker path to creating human-level artificial intelligence? Is the biological brain just messy hardware, which scientists can improve upon by running learning algorithms on computers? Can AI bypass the evolutionary programming of “grown” networks? Through a series of fictional discussions between researchers across disciplines, complemented by in-depth seminars, Hiesinger explores these tightly linked questions, highlighting the challenges facing scientists, their different disciplinary perspectives and approaches, as well as the common ground shared by those interested in the development of biological brains and AI systems. In the end, Hiesinger contends that the information content of biological and artificial neural networks must unfold in an algorithmic process requiring time and energy. There is no genome and no blueprint that depicts the final product. The self-assembling brain knows no shortcuts.Written for readers interested in advances in neuroscience and artificial intelligence, The Self-Assembling Brain looks at how neural networks grow smarter.




Peter Robin Hiesinger is professor of neurobiology at the Institute for Biology, Freie Universität Berlin.











"The Self-Assembling Brain considers an interesting and timely topic—the relationship between what we know about how biological brains develop and the principles by which artificial intelligence networks are designed. Beginning with a fascinating historical debate, this book takes an ambitious look at a big and important area. I learned many things from new and diverse perspectives, which is exactly what I would expect from a book like this."—Kevin J. Mitchell, author of Innate
"Is the structure of the adult human brain a sufficient model for building artificially intelligent neural networks? Absolutely not is the message of The Self-Assembling Brain. Developmental processes are shown to be central to learning, both in the growth of the brain and continuing through in adult intelligence. This book could be a game changer."—Mark Lee, author of How to Grow a Robot
"This delightful book explores the underappreciated importance of algorithmic growth in understanding how biological systems develop and brains assemble. A significant contribution, The Self-Assembling Brain will interest readers in systems neuroscience, developmental neuroscience, and other areas of developmental biology, as well as computer scientists with an interest in biology."—Simon R. Schultz, Imperial College London


      			All the News That’s Fit to Click: How Metrics Are Transforming the Work of Journalists From the New York Times to Gawker, a behind-the-scenes look at how performance analytics are transforming journalism today—and how they might remake other professions tomorrow

Journalists today are inundated with data about which stories attract the most clicks, likes, comments, and shares. These metrics influence what stories are written, how news is promoted, and even which journalists get hired and fired. Do metrics make journalists more accountable to the public? Or are these data tools the contemporary equivalent of a stopwatch wielded by a factory boss, worsening newsroom working conditions and journalism quality? In All the News That’s Fit to Click, Caitlin Petre takes readers behind the scenes at the New York Times, Gawker, and the prominent news analytics company Chartbeat to explore how performance metrics are transforming the work of journalism.Petre describes how digital metrics are a powerful but insidious new form of managerial surveillance and discipline. Real-time analytics tools are designed to win the trust and loyalty of wary journalists by mimicking key features of addictive games, including immersive displays, instant feedback, and constantly updated “scores” and rankings. Many journalists get hooked on metrics—and pressure themselves to work ever harder to boost their numbers.Yet this is not a simple story of managerial domination. Contrary to the typical perception of metrics as inevitably disempowering, Petre shows how some journalists leverage metrics to their advantage, using them to advocate for their professional worth and autonomy.An eye-opening account of data-driven journalism, All the News That’s Fit to Click is also an important preview of how the metrics revolution may transform other professions.




Caitlin Petre is assistant professor of journalism and media studies at Rutgers University. She lives in New York City. Twitter: @cbpetre






      			Statistical and Thermal Physics: With Computer Applications, Second Edition This new edition combines a comprehensive coverage of statistical and thermal physics with enhanced computational tools, accessibility, and active learning activities to meet the needs of today's students and educators

The revised and expanded edition of Statistical and Thermal Physics introduces students to the essential ideas and techniques used in many areas of contemporary physics. Ready-to-run programs help make the many abstract concepts concrete. The text requires only a background in introductory mechanics and some basic ideas of quantum theory, discussing material typically found in undergraduate texts as well as topics such as fluids, critical phenomena, and computational techniques, which serve as a natural bridge to graduate study.Completely revised to be more accessible to studentsEncourages active reading with guided problems tied to the textUpdated open source programs available in Java, Python, and JavaScriptIntegrates Monte Carlo and molecular dynamics simulations and other numerical techniquesSelf-contained introductions to thermodynamics and probability, including Bayes’ theoremA fuller discussion of magnetism and the Ising model than other undergraduate textsTreats ideal classical and quantum gases within a uniform frameworkFeatures a new chapter on transport coefficients and linear response theoryDraws on findings from contemporary researchSolutions manual (available only to instructors)




Harvey Gould is Professor Emeritus of Physics at Clark University. Jan Tobochnik is the Dow Distinguished Professor of Natural Science at Kalamazoo College. They are the coauthors, with Wolfgang Christian, of An Introduction to Computer Simulation Methods: Applications to Physical Systems.






      			A Student's Guide to Python for Physical Modeling: Second Edition A fully updated tutorial on the basics of the Python programming language for science students

Python is a computer programming language that has gained popularity throughout the sciences. This fully updated second edition of A Student’s Guide to Python for Physical Modeling aims to help you, the student, teach yourself enough of the Python programming language to get started with physical modeling. You will learn how to install an open-source Python programming environment and use it to accomplish many common scientific computing tasks: importing, exporting, and visualizing data; numerical analysis; and simulation. No prior programming experience is assumed.This guide introduces a wide range of useful tools, including:Basic Python programming and scriptingNumerical arraysTwo- and three-dimensional graphicsAnimationMonte Carlo simulationsNumerical methods, including solving ordinary differential equationsImage processingNumerous code samples and exercises—with solutions—illustrate new ideas as they are introduced. This guide also includes supplemental online resources: code samples, data sets, tutorials, and more. This edition includes new material on symbolic calculations with SymPy, an introduction to Python libraries for data science and machine learning (pandas and sklearn), and a primer on Python classes and object-oriented programming. A new appendix also introduces command line tools and version control with Git.




Jesse M. Kinder is assistant professor of physics at the Oregon Institute of Technology. Philip Nelson is professor of physics at the University of Pennsylvania. His books include From Photon to Neuron (Princeton), Physical Models of Living Systems, and Biological Physics.






"At a brief 160 pages, it is quite possible for a motivated student to complete it in just a few sittings. . . . A fine introduction." —American Journal of Physics
"The text serves as an excellent stepping stone into the world of using Python in computational science for undergraduate students with a strong background in mathematics."—Kevin Thielen and Vivienne Tien, Computing in Science & Engineering
"Kinder and Nelson's engaging introduction to scientific programming in Python is careful and thorough, and focuses on actual essentials. Bread-and-butter concepts and techniques, belonging in every computational scientist's toolbox, are presented with well-thought-out examples drawn from daily research practice. This is a clever text, inviting students to take that most important step: to dive right in and start coding."—Cornelis Storm, Eindhoven University of Technology
"Kinder and Nelson have written a friendly and succinct, yet surprisingly comprehensive, introduction to scientific programming in Python. It's written not just for computational scientists, but for anyone who needs to plot and analyze experimental data, numerically solve equations, or learn the basics of programming. Even students who have experience in programming will appreciate the thought-provoking exercises and guidelines for getting the most out of Python."—Vinothan N. Manoharan, Harvard University
"This book is tailor-made for physical scientists beginning to do computation. More than in any other programming book I've read, the authors are conscientious—they anticipate and troubleshoot the areas of confusion readers might encounter. Kinder and Nelson carefully and effectively guide readers toward the goal of formulating a computational problem and solving it."—Justin Bois, California Institute of Technology
"Like patient driving instructors, Kinder and Nelson guide the hands of novice programming students from the get-go, helping them to avoid obstacles and crashes. By the end of the book, students should be racing around confidently like pros, using Python to solve scientific problems of data analysis, modeling, and visualization. A great textbook for a first course in modern scientific programming in any context, and one that I'll be using myself."—Garnet Kin-Lic Chan, Princeton University
"This book covers the basics of Python programming language, with an emphasis on physical modeling. It provides a very useful introduction to Python for undergraduate students and others who have never programmed before."—Zeljko Ivezic, University of Washington
"This is an excellent introductory text, aimed at those with little to no experience in programming. In a clear and concise manner, the authors cover or touch upon all the important aspects of computational science in Python. They guide readers by explaining how to best perform certain common tasks in scientific computing. The book's examples and user exercises are well selected."—Quentin Caudron, Princeton University


      			Google's PageRank and Beyond: The Science of Search Engine Rankings 

Why doesn’t your home page appear on the first page of search results, even when you query your own name? How do other web pages always appear at the top? What creates these powerful rankings? And how? The first book ever about the science of web page rankings, Google’s PageRank and Beyond supplies the answers to these and other questions and more.  The book serves two very different audiences: the curious science reader and the technical computational reader. The chapters build in mathematical sophistication, so that the first five are accessible to the general academic reader. While other chapters are much more mathematical in nature, each one contains something for both audiences. For example, the authors include entertaining asides such as how search engines make money and how the Great Firewall of China influences research.  The book includes an extensive background chapter designed to help readers learn more about the mathematics of search engines, and it contains several MATLAB codes and links to sample web data sets. The philosophy throughout is to encourage readers to experiment with the ideas and algorithms in the text.  Any business seriously interested in improving its rankings in the major search engines can benefit from the clear examples, sample code, and list of resources provided.  Many illustrative examples and entertaining asides   MATLAB code   Accessible and informal style   Complete and self-contained section for mathematics review

Awards and Recognition

Honorable Mention for the 2006 Award for Best Professional/Scholarly Book in Computer & Information Science, Association of American Publishers





Amy N. Langville is Assistant Professor of  Mathematics at the College of Charleston in Charleston, South Carolina. She studies mathematical algorithms for information retrieval and text and data mining applications. Carl D. Meyer is Professor of Mathematics at North Carolina State University. In addition to information retrieval, his research areas include numerical analysis, linear algebra, and Markov chains. He is the author of Matrix Analysis and Applied Linear Algebra.











"[F]or anyone who wants to delve deeply into just how Google's PageRank works, I recommend Google's PageRank and Beyond."—Stephen H. Wildstrom, BusinessWeek
"This is a worthwhile book. It offers a comprehensive and erudite presentation of PageRank and related search-engine algorithms, and it is written in an approachable way, given the mathematical foundations involved."—Jonathan Bowen, Times Higher Education Supplement
"This book should be at the top of anyone's list as a must-read for those interested in how search engines work and, more specifically how Google is to meet the needs of so many people in so many ways."—Michael W. Berry, SIAM Review
"Amy N. Langville and Carl D. Meyer examine the logic, mathematics, and sophistication behind Google's PageRank and other Internet search engine ranking programs. . . . It is an excellent work."—Ian D. Gordon, Library Journal
"If I were taking, or teaching, a course in linear algebra today, this book would be a godsend."—Ed Gerstner, Nature Physics
"Langville and Meyer present the mathematics in all its detail. . . . But they vary the math with discussions of the many issues involved in building search engines, the 'wars' between search engine developers and those trying to artificially inflate the position of their pages, and the future of search-engine development. . . . Google's PageRank and Beyond makes good reading for anyone, student or professional, who wants to understand the details of search engines."—James Hendler, Physics Today
"This book is written for people who are curious about new science and technology as well as for those with more advanced background in matrix theory.... Much of the book can be easily followed by general readers, while understanding the remaining part requires only a good first course in linear algebra. It can be a reference book for people who want to know more about the ideas behind the currently popular search engines, and it provides an introductory text for beginning researchers in the area of information retrieval."—Jiu Ding, Mathemathical Reviews
"The book is very attractively and clearly written. The authors succeed to manage in an optimal way the presentation of both basic and more sophisticated concepts involved in the analysis of Google's PageRank, such that the book serves both audiences: the general and the technical scientific public."—Constantin Popa, Zentralblatt MATH
"The book under review is excellently written, with a fresh and engaging style. The reader will particularly enjoy the 'Asides' interspersed throughout the text. They contain all kind of entertaining stories, practical tips, and amusing quotes. . . . The book also contains some useful resources for computation."—Pablo Fernández, Mathematical Intelligencer
"Google's PageRank and Beyond describes the link analysis tool called PageRank, puts it in the context of web search engines and information retrieval, and describes competing methods for ranking webpages. It is an utterly engaging book."—Bill Satzer, MathDL.maa.org
"Comprehensive and engagingly written. This book should become an important resource for many audiences: applied mathematicians, search industry professionals, and anyone who wants to learn more about how search engines work."—Jon Kleinberg, Cornell University
"I don't think there are any competitive books in print with the same depth and breadth on the topic of search engine ranking. The content is well-organized and well-written."—Michael Berry, University of Tennessee


      			Number-Crunching: Taming Unruly Computational Problems from Mathematical Physics to Science Fiction More stimulating mathematics puzzles from bestselling author Paul Nahin

How do technicians repair broken communications cables at the bottom of the ocean without actually seeing them? What’s the likelihood of plucking a needle out of a haystack the size of the Earth? And is it possible to use computers to create a universal library of everything ever written or every photo ever taken? These are just some of the intriguing questions that best-selling popular math writer Paul Nahin tackles in Number-Crunching. Through brilliant math ideas and entertaining stories, Nahin demonstrates how odd and unusual math problems can be solved by bringing together basic physics ideas and today’s powerful computers. Some of the outcomes discussed are so counterintuitive they will leave readers astonished.Nahin looks at how the art of number-crunching has changed since the advent of computers, and how high-speed technology helps to solve fascinating conundrums such as the three-body, Monte Carlo, leapfrog, and gambler’s ruin problems. Along the way, Nahin traverses topics that include algebra, trigonometry, geometry, calculus, number theory, differential equations, Fourier series, electronics, and computers in science fiction. He gives historical background for the problems presented, offers many examples and numerous challenges, supplies MATLAB codes for all the theories discussed, and includes detailed and complete solutions.Exploring the intimate relationship between mathematics, physics, and the tremendous power of modern computers, Number-Crunching will appeal to anyone interested in understanding how these three important fields join forces to solve today’s thorniest puzzles.




Paul J. Nahin is the author of many best-selling popular math books, including Mrs. Perkins's Electric Quilt, Digital Dice, Chases and Escapes, Dr. Euler's Fabulous Formula, When Least Is Best, and An Imaginary Tale (all Princeton). He is professor emeritus of electrical engineering at the University of New Hampshire.











"Great stories. Interesting and challenging problems. Instructive MATLAB code. Lots of physics. That's my in-a-nutshell assessment. . . . Nahin takes on the subject of using computers to solve difficult problems, many in physics, that couldn't be solved before computers. . . . This is one of those books that one can read as a spectator, enjoying the scenery, taking in the landscape, appreciating the rich stories—my relationship with the book—or one can dive in, study the many equations, run the code, and have a personal experience of how problems that were unsolvable just a few decades ago have succumbed to computers."—Sol Lederman, Wild About Math
"Number Crunching is most timely, given the escalating scale of economic, commercial, and financial transactions, necessitating thinking about, evaluating, and communicating on a much larger scale. . . . The presentation in Number Crunching is simultaneously accessible, readable, entertaining, daunting, sophisticated, and technical."—Stephen E. Roulac, New York Journal of Books
"Number-Crunching is packed with copious notes and references and augmented by significant challenge problems that take the reader beyond the text and which would make good undergraduate projects. . . . Nahin's aim is clearly to convey enthusiasm for the subject to a younger reader and to give a glimpse of what is technically possible. . . . He looks to convey the excitement that he and many of us had when first attracted to the physical sciences as we were growing up—the excitement at the realisation that, given a few tools, even an awkward teenager can make quantitative statements about the world."—C.J. Howls, Times Higher Education
"Paul Nahin, a prolific and knowledgeable expository writer, is a professor emeritus of electrical engineering at the University of New Hampshire. What he offers in Number-Crunching might be described as a mix of (1) supplementary readings for courses in mathematics, physics, or electrical engineering, (2) 'challenge problems' intended as a brain-jogging call to prospective professionals, and (3) a garage sale of mathematical miscellania and esoterica."—Philip J. Davis, SIAM News
"[Number-Crunching] is impressive for several reasons. First, Nahin has found the right level—not too easy and not too hard. Second, the problem selections and topics are interesting and in several cases give surprising results. Finally, the book is just plain fun."—Choice
"[A] highly entertaining and rewarding read."—Dean Rickles, Mathematical Reviews
"Unlike writers of popular mathematics books, Nahin is more then happy to spray the pages with equations! Since these are surrounded by lucid and informal explanations, they add significant value to the book. . . . Whether or not you are the computing type, there is a lot to enjoy about this book."—Alan Stevens, Mathematics TODAY
"Many of these challenge problems would make excellent projects—both in mathematics or physics—for undergraduates to explore. Number-Crunching's greatest strength is providing a perspective on how three unique yet vastly intertwined fields interact while keeping readers more and more intrigued as they progress through the text. Readers will find abundant resources to quench their thirst for knowledge of computational mathematics and physics."—Brandon Milanovich, Mathematics Teacher
"While there is a plethora of computational physics books, only this one brings the sheer joy and fascination of the subject to the general reader. The problems in Number-Crunching are nicely selected, the prose is clear and humorous, and the solutions range from the interesting to the gloriously counterintuitive. With the ubiquity of powerful personal computers and the easy availability of scientific software, this is a very timely book."—Lawrence Weinstein, coauthor of Guesstimation
"Nahin's work is always highly interesting. His book tackles a large number of problems that can be handled by an adroit combination of pencil-and-paper work and, where the analytics get too difficult, numerical computation. This book is great and I really enjoyed it."—Charles Adler, St. Mary's College





          Additional Links
      


MATLAB codes




      			The Discrete Charm of the Machine: Why the World Became Digital The genesis of the digital idea and why it transformed civilization

A few short decades ago, we were informed by the smooth signals of analog television and radio; we communicated using our analog telephones; and we even computed with analog computers. Today our world is digital, built with zeros and ones. Why did this revolution occur? The Discrete Charm of the Machine explains, in an engaging and accessible manner, the varied physical and logical reasons behind this radical transformation.The spark of individual genius shines through this story of innovation: the stored program of Jacquard’s loom; Charles Babbage’s logical branching; Alan Turing’s brilliant abstraction of the discrete machine; Harry Nyquist’s foundation for digital signal processing; Claude Shannon’s breakthrough insights into the meaning of information and bandwidth; and Richard Feynman’s prescient proposals for nanotechnology and quantum computing. Ken Steiglitz follows the progression of these ideas in the building of our digital world, from the internet and artificial intelligence to the edge of the unknown. Are questions like the famous traveling salesman problem truly beyond the reach of ordinary digital computers? Can quantum computers transcend these barriers? Does a mysterious magical power reside in the analog mechanisms of the brain? Steiglitz concludes by confronting the moral and aesthetic questions raised by the development of artificial intelligence and autonomous robots.The Discrete Charm of the Machine examines why our information technology, the lifeblood of our civilization, became digital, and challenges us to think about where its future trajectory may lead.

Q&A with Ken Steiglitz


Ken Steiglitz: When Caruso’s Voice Became Immortal





Ken Steiglitz is professor emeritus of computer science and senior scholar at Princeton University. His books include Combinatorial Optimization, A Digital Signal Processing Primer, and Snipers, Shills, and Sharks (Princeton). He lives in Princeton, New Jersey.













“Well written and well organized, The Discrete Charm of the Machine discusses the transition from analog to digital both in technology and in the way we approach problems in computing. With an expansive scope that ranges from low-level physics to high-level questions about the limitations of computation, this is a welcome book in the field.”—Lance Fortnow, author of The Golden Ticket
“The Discrete Charm of the Machine is a fun book! Steiglitz has a beautiful writing style that mixes hardcore facts with playful observations.”—William Cook, author of In Pursuit of the Traveling Salesman
“Written by one of the pioneers of digital signal processing, The Discrete Charm of the Machine takes readers on an entertaining, accessible stroll through the history of the conversion of computer and entertainment technology from analog to digital. Steiglitz clearly had fun composing this enjoyable book.”—Alan V. Oppenheim, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
“The Discrete Charm of the Machine is an inspirational must-read and delightful guide for anyone interested in traveling from the computational past through to the present. Reading this book will make you rethink what computation really is.”—Andrew Adamatzky, University of the West of England


      			Dark Data: Why What You Don’t Know Matters A practical guide to making good decisions in a world of missing data

In the era of big data, it is easy to imagine that we have all the information we need to make good decisions. But in fact the data we have are never complete, and may be only the tip of the iceberg. Just as much of the universe is composed of dark matter, invisible to us but nonetheless present, the universe of information is full of dark data that we overlook at our peril. In Dark Data, data expert David Hand takes us on a fascinating and enlightening journey into the world of the data we don’t see.Dark Data explores the many ways in which we can be blind to missing data and how that can lead us to conclusions and actions that are mistaken, dangerous, or even disastrous. Examining a wealth of real-life examples, from the Challenger shuttle explosion to complex financial frauds, Hand gives us a practical taxonomy of the types of dark data that exist and the situations in which they can arise, so that we can learn to recognize and control for them. In doing so, he teaches us not only to be alert to the problems presented by the things we don’t know, but also shows how dark data can be used to our advantage, leading to greater understanding and better decisions.Today, we all make decisions using data. Dark Data shows us all how to reduce the risk of making bad ones.

Q&A with David Hand





David J. Hand is emeritus professor of mathematics and senior research investigator at Imperial College London, a former president of the Royal Statistical Society, and a fellow of the British Academy. His many previous books include The Improbability Principle, Measurement: A Very Short Introduction, Statistics: A Very Short Introduction, and Principles of Data Mining.











"[A] penetrating study of missing (‘dark’) data and its impacts on decisions . . . Hand offers expert training, from recognizing when facts are being cherry-picked to designing randomized trials. A book illuminating shadowed corners in science, medicine and policy."—Barbara Kiser, Nature
"You need to read [Dark Data], and be convinced by David’s reasoning and his examples of cases in which unseen or unreported data play a critical and sometimes even a fatal role. You are likely to walk away with the feeling that the term dark data is indeed a very effective one to arouse both curiosity and suspicion, mixed with happiness that finally a great term was coined by a statistician—and sadness that the statistician is not you."—Xiao-Li Meng, IMS Bulletin
"An exploration of a major problem in data analysis with an attempt of classification, analysing causes, mechanisms, and to some extent also suggest mitigations."—Adhemar Bultheel, European Mathematical Society
"A topical and relevant book. . . . Hand knows his subject well and takes us on a tour de force of the many, varied reasons why data, and the elements that we don’t have – the dark data – is such a complex area to get right."—Simon Cocking, Irish Tech News
"An excellent guide to the many reasons for caution in interepreting data."—Diane Coyle, Enlightened Economist
"I enjoyed this book a lot; it is well-written and accesible."—Tim Harford, Undercover Economist
"When we make decisions in our personal and professional lives, we typically start with some form of data. The very word 'data' derives from the Latin meaning 'something given.' But who gave it? Where is it from? Should I accept it at face value? Opening our eyes to the pitfalls of taking 'something given' for granted, this insightful book should be required reading for everyone in an age when 'fake news' and the explosion of data go hand in hand."—Adrian Smith, director and chief executive of The Alan Turing Institute 
"David Hand shines a bright light onto the dark corners of statistics. This is a learned book but a witty, readable, and important one. I learned a lot and so will you."—Tim Harford, author of Fifty Inventions That Shaped the Modern Economy and presenter of the BBC series More or Less
"It is hard to think of anyone having anything at all to do with data-driven decisions who couldn't benefit from reading this book. David Hand effortlessly guides the reader through the many pitfalls of dark data."—Arno Siebes, Universiteit Utrecht
"This unique and much-needed book provides an accessible guide to dark data at a time when general awareness of the phenomenon is declining."—Geert Molenberghs, Universiteit Hasselt and KU Leuven


      			Hacking Diversity: The Politics of Inclusion in Open Technology Cultures A firsthand look at efforts to improve diversity in software and hackerspace communities

Hacking, as a mode of technical and cultural production, is commonly celebrated for its extraordinary freedoms of creation and circulation. Yet surprisingly few women participate in it: rates of involvement by technologically skilled women are drastically lower in hacking communities than in industry and academia. Hacking Diversity investigates the activists engaged in free and open-source software to understand why, despite their efforts, they fail to achieve the diversity that their ideals support.Christina Dunbar-Hester shows that within this well-meaning volunteer world, beyond the sway of human resource departments and equal opportunity legislation, members of underrepresented groups face unique challenges. She brings together more than five years of firsthand research: attending software conferences and training events, working on message boards and listservs, and frequenting North American hackerspaces. She explores who participates in voluntaristic technology cultures, to what ends, and with what consequences. Digging deep into the fundamental assumptions underpinning STEM-oriented societies, Dunbar-Hester demonstrates that while the preferred solutions of tech enthusiasts—their “hacks” of projects and cultures—can ameliorate some of the “bugs” within their own communities, these methods come up short for issues of unequal social and economic power. Distributing “diversity” in technical production is not equal to generating justice.Hacking Diversity reframes questions of diversity advocacy to consider what interventions might appropriately broaden inclusion and participation in the hacking world and beyond.




Christina Dunbar-Hester is associate professor of communication in the Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism at the University of Southern California. She is the author of Low Power to the People: Pirates, Protest, and Politics in FM Radio Activism.






"[Dunbar-Hester's] conclusions are refreshingly universal and her insights will be valuable to many people seeking to make their industries more diverse and inclusive."—Lady Science
"Hacking Diversity takes us into the hackerspaces, makerspaces, and unconferences where diversity advocates hack their social order to open up volunteer technologies along multiple dimensions. Dunbar-Hester shows that much more than 'stuff' is produced—issues of gender, race, power, and class emerge and are interrogated. This is essential reading for anyone wanting to understand how diversity becomes productive in open technology movements and corporate tech cultures."—Sareeta Amrute, University of Washington
"This book provides a clear-eyed critical exploration of diversity advocacy within today's market-saturated culture of open technology, fractured by the sediments of racial capitalism. Dunbar-Hester brilliantly combines historical analysis with ethnographic insights to show why DIY interventions by voluntaristic open technologists and computing devotees, however well-meaning, struggle to resolve the foundational tensions between individual freedom and collective emancipation."—Paula Chakravartty, New York University
"Written with grace, clarity, and generosity, Hacking Diversity critically probes inclusion initiatives in open content and hacker communities. Giving credit where it is due, Dunbar-Hester shows how diversity advocacy engendered laudable changes that nevertheless have fallen short of securing substantive equity and justice. This widely relevant book will become central to reorienting the public debate around diversity in technology."—Gabriella Coleman, McGill University
"Unraveling threads of identity, open technology, and activism over the past decade, Hacking Diversity sympathetically but critically analyzes the daily life, utopian desires, and critical awareness of participants in hackerspaces, free software communities, maker movements, and activist tech collectives. Dunbar-Hester reveals the poignant tensions at work in communities struggling to address problems of global political inequality with new technologies and practices that promise liberation—but all too rarely deliver it."—Christopher M. Kelty, University of California, Los Angeles
"Well-written, sophisticated, theoretically limber, and often clever and humorous, Hacking Diversity unpacks the concept of diversity advocacy and how to create, nurture, and sustain feminist hacker/maker spaces. It will make an impact in feminist media studies, critical communication studies, digital activism studies, and science and technology studies."—Leslie Regan Shade, University of Toronto


      			Statistics, Data Mining, and Machine Learning in Astronomy: A Practical Python Guide for the Analysis of Survey Data, Updated Edition 

Statistics, Data Mining, and Machine Learning in Astronomy is the essential introduction to the statistical methods needed to analyze complex data sets from astronomical surveys such as the Panoramic Survey Telescope and Rapid Response System, the Dark Energy Survey, and the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope. Now fully updated, it presents a wealth of practical analysis problems, evaluates the techniques for solving them, and explains how to use various approaches for different types and sizes of data sets. Python code and sample data sets are provided for all applications described in the book. The supporting data sets have been carefully selected from contemporary astronomical surveys and are easy to download and use. The accompanying Python code is publicly available, well documented, and follows uniform coding standards. Together, the data sets and code enable readers to reproduce all the figures and examples, engage with the different methods, and adapt them to their own fields of interest.An accessible textbook for students and an indispensable reference for researchers, this updated edition features new sections on deep learning methods, hierarchical Bayes modeling, and approximate Bayesian computation. The chapters have been revised throughout and the astroML code has been brought completely up to date.Fully revised and expandedDescribes the most useful statistical and data-mining methods for extracting knowledge from huge and complex astronomical data setsFeatures real-world data sets from astronomical surveysUses a freely available Python codebase throughoutIdeal for graduate students, advanced undergraduates, and working astronomers




Željko Ivezić is professor of astronomy at the University of Washington. Andrew J. Connolly is professor of astronomy at the University of Washington. Jacob T. VanderPlas is a software engineer at Google. Alexander Gray is vice president of AI science at IBM.






Praise for the previous edition:"A comprehensive, accessible, well-thought-out introduction to the new and burgeoning field of astrostatistics."—Choice "A substantial work that can be of value to students and scientists interested in mining the vast amount of astronomical data collected to date. . . . If data mining and machine learning fall within your interest area, this text deserves a place on your shelf."—Planetarian"This comprehensive book is surely going to be regarded as one of the foremost texts in the new discipline of astrostatistics."—Joseph M. Hilbe, president of the International Astrostatistics Association"In the era of data-driven science, many students and researchers have faced a barrier to entry. Until now, they have lacked an effective tutorial introduction to the array of tools and code for data mining and statistical analysis. The comprehensive overview of techniques provided in this book, accompanied by a Python toolbox, free readers to explore and analyze the data rather than reinvent the wheel."—Tony Tyson, University of California, Davis"The authors are leading experts in the field who have utilized the techniques described here in their own very successful research. Statistics, Data Mining, and Machine Learning in Astronomy is a book that will become a key resource for the astronomy community."—Robert J. Hanisch, Space Telescope Science Institute


      			Mathematics and Computation: A Theory Revolutionizing Technology and Science An introduction to computational complexity theory, its connections and interactions with mathematics, and its central role in the natural and social sciences, technology, and philosophy

Mathematics and Computation provides a broad, conceptual overview of computational complexity theory—the mathematical study of efficient computation. With important practical applications to computer science and industry, computational complexity theory has evolved into a highly interdisciplinary field, with strong links to most mathematical areas and to a growing number of scientific endeavors.Avi Wigderson takes a sweeping survey of complexity theory, emphasizing the field’s insights and challenges. He explains the ideas and motivations leading to key models, notions, and results. In particular, he looks at algorithms and complexity, computations and proofs, randomness and interaction, quantum and arithmetic computation, and cryptography and learning, all as parts of a cohesive whole with numerous cross-influences. Wigderson illustrates the immense breadth of the field, its beauty and richness, and its diverse and growing interactions with other areas of mathematics. He ends with a comprehensive look at the theory of computation, its methodology and aspirations, and the unique and fundamental ways in which it has shaped and will further shape science, technology, and society. For further reading, an extensive bibliography is provided for all topics covered.Mathematics and Computation is useful for undergraduate and graduate students in mathematics, computer science, and related fields, as well as researchers and teachers in these fields. Many parts require little background, and serve as an invitation to newcomers seeking an introduction to the theory of computation.Comprehensive coverage of computational complexity theory, and beyondHigh-level, intuitive exposition, which brings conceptual clarity to this central and dynamic scientific disciplineHistorical accounts of the evolution and motivations of central concepts and modelsA broad view of the theory of computation’s influence on science, technology, and societyExtensive bibliography




Avi Wigderson is the Herbert H. Maass Professor in the School of Mathematics at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey.











"Avi Wigderson's new 440-page book, Mathematics and Computation: A Theory Revolutionizing Technology and Science (Princeton University Press, October 2019), lays out a commanding overview of the theory of computing and argues for its central role in human thought."—Allyn Jackson, Communications of the ACM
"This must-read book provides a high-level, enjoyable overview of numerous parts of mathematics that are related to computation in general, and computational complexity in particular."—Choice
"A delightful, lucid, and personal guide that perfectly captures the spirit of the field, and does full justice to both its depth and breadth."—Leslie Valiant, Harvard University 
"A compelling in-depth account of modern complexity theory and related mathematics by one of its principal architects. A must multiread for mathematicians and scientists, students and experts alike." —Peter Sarnak, Princeton University and Institute for Advanced Study
“This book is a real gem. Avi Wigderson has woven together very big and deep ideas from the field, such as pseudorandomness and hardness of computation, in a way that is accessible to a general scientific audience.”—Toniann Pitassi, University of Toronto 
"A beautiful, broad view of theoretical computer science, by a giant in the field. A must-read."—Ryan O'Donnell, Carnegie Mellon University
“This wonderful exposition of modern complexity theory distills complex arguments down to their main insights, and deftly explains the interconnections between entire subfields. This book will have a major impact on the way we teach complexity theory, and the way that graduate students in the field learn it.”—Ankur Moitra, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
“Mathematics and Computation presents a panoramic view of the theory of computation, starting from its origins in the 1930s to modern directions and developments, with an emphasis on the latter. With impressive breadth and depth, this book covers an amazing amount of ground.”—Mark Braverman, Princeton University
"This is a remarkable book. It surveys the entire current scope of theoretical computer science, in a way only Avi Wigderson, our field’s consummate generalist, could do. It also sets out Wigderson’s vision for the future and his sociological thoughts about theoretical computer science and its interactions with neighboring fields. I recommend it to anyone looking for a panoramic view of the subject."—Scott Aaronson, University of Texas, Austin


      			Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age An innovative and accessible guide to doing social research in the digital age

The rapid spread of social media, smartphones, and other digital wonders enables us to collect and process data about human behavior on a scale never before imaginable, offering entirely new approaches to core questions about social behavior. Bit by Bit is the key to unlocking these powerful methods. In this authoritative and accessible book, Matthew Salganik explains how the digital revolution is transforming the way social scientists observe behavior, ask questions, run experiments, and engage in mass collaborations. Featuring a wealth of real-world examples and invaluable advice on how to tackle the thorniest ethical challenges, Bit by Bit is the essential guide to doing social research in this fast-evolving digital age.

Matthew Salganik: The Open Review of Bit by Bit, Part 1—Better books


Matthew Salganik: The Open Review of Bit by Bit, Part 2—Higher sales


Matthew Salganik: The Open Review of Bit by Bit, Part 3—Increased access to knowledge


Awards and Recognition

Winner of the 2019 PROSE Award in Textbook / Social Sciences, Association of American Publishers





Matthew J. Salganik is professor of sociology at Princeton University, where he is also affiliated with the Center for Information Technology Policy and the Center for Statistics and Machine Learning.











"An enticing and important field guide to the new frontier of digital social research."—Beth Simone Noveck, Forbes
"Salganik is one of the first natural-born computational social scientists. . . . The text is clearly written—even breezy, in parts. It puts the reader in the shoes of the researcher: What decisions were made, why, and were those the best choices? It is suitable for an advanced undergraduate or graduate class in methodology, with a rigorous, mathematical appendix and a range of useful problems at the conclusion of each chapter."—David Lazer, Science
"This is a book to return to time and again. . . . Bit by Bit should be widely read by those engaging in social research, as well as beyond."—Farida Vis, Times Higher Education
"A tremendously useful introduction for data scientists to the pressing questions of the social sciences, and for social scientists to the mindset and toolset of data science. With skill and scholarly insight, Salganik addresses the ethical questions that arise at the intersection of data science and social science."—Chris Wiggins, Columbia University





          Resources
      


Chapter 1




      			Infinity and the Mind: The Science and Philosophy of the Infinite A dynamic exploration of infinity

In Infinity and the Mind, Rudy Rucker leads an excursion to that stretch of the universe he calls the “Mindscape,” where he explores infinity in all its forms: potential and actual, mathematical and physical, theological and mundane. Using cartoons, puzzles, and quotations to enliven his text, Rucker acquaints us with staggeringly advanced levels of infinity, delves into the depths beneath daily awareness, and explains Kurt Gödel’s belief in the possibility of robot consciousness. In the realm of infinity, mathematics, science, and logic merge with the fantastic. By closely examining the paradoxes that arise, we gain profound insights into the human mind, its powers, and its limitations. This Princeton Science Library edition includes a new preface by the author.




Rudy Rucker is a mathematician, computer scientist, author, and one of the founders of the cyberpunk literary movement. His many books on mathematics and philosophy include Mind Tools and The Fourth Dimension, and his numerous works of science fiction include The Ware Tetralogy, Turing & Burroughs, and his novel of infinity, White Light.






“A terrific study with real mathematical depth.”—New Yorker
“Rucker leads his readers through these mental gymnastics in an easy, informal way.”—San Francisco Chronicle
“Infinity and the Mind is funny, provocative, entertaining, and profound.”—Joseph Shipman, Journal of Symbolic Logic
“Attempts to put Gödel’s theorems into sharper focus, or at least to explain them to the nonspecialist, abound. My personal favorite is Rudy Rucker’s Infinity and the Mind, which I recommend without reservation.”—Craig Smorynski, American Mathematical Monthly
“Informal, amusing, witty, profound. . . . In an extraordinary burst of creative energy, Rudy Rucker has managed to bring together every aspect of mathematical infinity.”—Martin Gardner


      			The Future of Immortality: Remaking Life and Death in Contemporary Russia A gripping account of the Russian visionaries who are pursuing human immortality

As long as we have known death, we have dreamed of life without end. In The Future of Immortality, Anya Bernstein explores the contemporary Russian communities of visionaries and utopians who are pressing at the very limits of the human.The Future of Immortality profiles a diverse cast of characters, from the owners of a small cryonics outfit to scientists inaugurating the field of biogerontology, from grassroots neurotech enthusiasts to believers in the Cosmist ideas of the Russian Orthodox thinker Nikolai Fedorov. Bernstein puts their debates and polemics in the context of a long history of immortalist thought in Russia, with global implications that reach to Silicon Valley and beyond. If aging is a curable disease, do we have a moral obligation to end the suffering it causes? Could immortality be the foundation of a truly liberated utopian society extending beyond the confines of the earth—something that Russians, historically, have pondered more than most? If life without end requires radical genetic modification or separating consciousness from our biological selves, how does that affect what it means to be human?As vividly written as any novel, The Future of Immortality is a fascinating account of techno-scientific and religious futurism—and the ways in which it hopes to transform our very being.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the William A. Douglass Book Prize in Europeanist Anthropology, Society for the Anthropology of Europe





Anya Bernstein is the John L. Loeb Associate Professor of Anthropology at Harvard University and the author of Religious Bodies Politic: Rituals of Sovereignty in Buryat Buddhism.











"Bernstein uses history as well as the contemporary landscape to riase questions about the chaging status of the category "human" in increasingly medically engineered bodies. In wonderfully thought-provoking passages, she muses over the relationships between body and mind, biology and technology to rethink, enlarge and playfully undermine the understanding of life itself."—Kate Brown, Times Literary Supplement
"Bernstein's radiant ethnography captures the intensity and ingenuity of people striving to conquer personal mortality via cryogenic freezing of the body or antiaging procedures, and connects such singular efforts to broader anxieties about the death of the planet, global extinction, and the loss of all human futures."—Alaina Lemon, University of Michigan 
“Magnificent, brilliant, and compelling, this is a work of the highest erudition, spanning many different areas of ethnography, science, and history.”—Nancy Ries, Colgate University
"With extraordinary ethnographic detail and theoretical depth, this remarkable book tells the story of the Russian immortalists—champions of life extension and universal immortality. By positioning them within a rich history of Russian thought on the questions of life, death, and ethics, and vis-à-vis current debates in anthropology and science studies, it demonstrates that what is at stake is a biopolitical remaking of the relationship between body and mind, biology and technology, and the very status of the human. It is a must-read!"—Alexei Yurchak, Everything Was Forever, Until It Was No More: The Last Soviet Generation
“A brilliant, carefully documented, and elegantly written book about contemporary Russian visionaries who are striving to make human immortality a reality. Bernstein has taken on a complex, multifaceted subject that has deep Russian roots and global relevance.”—Michele Rivkin-Fish, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill


      			Unsolved!: The History and Mystery of the World's Greatest Ciphers from Ancient Egypt to Online Secret Societies A mathematical tour of some of the greatest unsolved ciphers of all time

In 1953, a man was found dead from cyanide poisoning near the Philadelphia airport with a picture of a Nazi aircraft in his wallet and an enciphered message taped to his abdomen. In 1912, a book dealer named Wilfrid Voynich came into possession of an illuminated cipher manuscript once belonging to Emperor Rudolf II, who was obsessed with alchemy and the occult. Wartime codebreakers tried—and failed—to unlock the book’s secrets, and it remains an enigma to this day. In this lively and entertaining book, Craig Bauer examines these and other vexing ciphers yet to be cracked. Some may reveal the identity of a spy or serial killer, provide the location of buried treasure, or expose a secret society—while others may be elaborate hoaxes. He lays out the evidence surrounding each cipher, describes the efforts to decipher it, and invites readers to try their hand at puzzles that have stymied so many others.




Craig P. Bauer is professor of mathematics at York College of Pennsylvania. He is editor in chief of the journal Cryptologia, has served as a scholar in residence at the NSA’s Center for Cryptologic History, and is the author of Secret History: The Story of Cryptology.











“The Da Vinci Code has nothing on this exhaustive collection of cryptographs and codes—because these are real.”—Discover Magazine
“A thoroughly engaging read.”—Brian Clegg, Popular Science
“Unsolved! spans a huge arc of time and space, from Julius Caesar’s simple substitution cipher to composer Edward Elgar’s 1897 Dorabella Cipher.”—Andrew Robinson, Nature
“Bauer proves an able and entertaining guide to the world of real-life ciphers, codes, and encryption. . . . Unsolved! is suited to all who enjoy the thrill of the chase.”—Peter Dabbene, Foreword Reviews
“An in-depth guide to history’s greatest unsolved conundrums.”—BBC Focus
“I am blown away by this book. I have never read a non-fiction book before that is so thrillingly entertaining.”—Adhemar Bultheel, European Mathematical Society


      			Formal Verification of Control System Software		An essential introduction to the analysis and verification of control system software

The verification of control system software is critical to a host of technologies and industries, from aeronautics and medical technology to the cars we drive. The failure of controller software can cost people their lives. In this authoritative and accessible book, Pierre-Loïc Garoche provides control engineers and computer scientists with an indispensable introduction to the formal techniques for analyzing and verifying this important class of software.Too often, control engineers are unaware of the issues surrounding the verification of software, while computer scientists tend to be unfamiliar with the specificities of controller software. Garoche provides a unified approach that is geared to graduate students in both fields, covering formal verification methods as well as the design and verification of controllers. He presents a wealth of new verification techniques for performing exhaustive analysis of controller software. These include new means to compute nonlinear invariants, the use of convex optimization tools, and methods for dealing with numerical imprecisions such as floating point computations occurring in the analyzed software.As the autonomy of critical systems continues to increase—as evidenced by autonomous cars, drones, and satellites and landers—the numerical functions in these systems are growing ever more advanced. The techniques presented here are essential to support the formal analysis of the controller software being used in these new and emerging technologies.




Pierre-Loïc Garoche is senior research scientist at ONERA, France’s national aerospace research center.






“Innovative, mathematically exact, and very well written. Garoche is a rare resource, and his book will enrich the knowledge of both the computer-science and control-systems communities.”—Eric Feron, Georgia Institute of Technology 
"This book makes a timely contribution at the crossroads of formal computer science, optimization, and control. It should be of interest to computer scientists and control engineers."—Didier Henrion, LAAS-CNRS Toulouse and Czech Technical University in Prague
“A pleasure to read. Garoche’s excellent and timely book presents state-of-the-art methods building on convex optimization to perform static analysis for control systems and software.”—Taylor Johnson, Vanderbilt University


      			digitalSTS: A Field Guide for Science & Technology Studies New perspectives on digital scholarship that speak to today's computational realities 

Scholars across the humanities, social sciences, and information sciences are grappling with how best to study virtual environments, use computational tools in their research, and engage audiences with their results. Classic work in science and technology studies (STS) has played a central role in how these fields analyze digital technologies, but many of its key examples do not speak to today’s computational realities. This groundbreaking collection brings together a world-class group of contributors to refresh the canon for contemporary digital scholarship.In twenty-five pioneering and incisive essays, this unique digital field guide offers innovative new approaches to digital scholarship, the design of digital tools and objects, and the deployment of critically grounded technologies for analysis and discovery. Contributors cover a broad range of topics, including software development, hackathons, digitized objects, diversity in the tech sector, and distributed scientific collaborations. They discuss methodological considerations of social networks and data analysis, design projects that can translate STS concepts into durable scientific work, and much more.Featuring a concise introduction by Janet Vertesi and David Ribes and accompanied by an interactive microsite, this book provides new perspectives on digital scholarship that will shape the agenda for tomorrow’s generation of STS researchers and practitioners.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the Olga Amsterdamska Award, European Association for the Study of Science and Technology





Janet Vertesi is assistant professor of sociology at Princeton University and the author of Seeing Like a Rover: How Robots, Teams, and Images Craft Knowledge of Mars. David Ribes is associate professor in the Department of Human Centered Design and Engineering and director of the Data Ecologies Lab at the University of Washington.






"This delightful collection of thought-provoking essays, case studies, and research findings creates a coherent story out of the disparate threads that have helped animate digital science and technology studies. digitalSTS is an essential volume, helping junior scholars get their bearings while also enabling reflexivity among those deeply immersed in this field."—danah boyd, principal researcher at Microsoft Research, founder of Data & Society, and author of It's Complicated: The Social Lives of Networked Teens
"A dazzling collection of STS writing and thinking—an indispensable handbook for the next generation of science and technology studies."—Paul N. Edwards, author of A Vast Machine: Computer Models, Climate Data, and the Politics of Global Warming
"Science and technology studies (STS) is one of the most exciting new interdisciplinary fields in the academy. This indispensable collection by leading young STS scholars examines digital technologies, methods, and networks. Global in scope, well-crafted with introductions to different sections, and brimming with deep insights, this timely book is set to become a classic."—Trevor Pinch, Cornell University 
"This volume addresses the growing intersections of STS with sites and practices shaped by digital technologies, assembling a diverse but concentrated collection of researchers and approaches in a single source. It will be a tremendously valuable starting place for readers interested in the field and a continuing resource for research and teaching."—Lucy Suchman, Lancaster University, UK


      			Agent-Based and Individual-Based Modeling: A Practical Introduction, Second Edition The essential textbook on agent-based modeling—now fully updated and expanded

Agent-Based and Individual-Based Modeling has become the standard textbook on the subject for classroom use and self-instruction. Drawing on the latest version of NetLogo and fully updated with new examples, exercises, and an enhanced text for easier comprehension, this is the essential resource for anyone seeking to understand how the dynamics of biological, social, and other complex systems arise from the characteristics of the agents that make up these systems.Steven Railsback and Volker Grimm lead students stepwise through the processes of designing, programming, documenting, and doing scientific research with agent-based models, focusing on the adaptive behaviors that make these models necessary. They cover the fundamentals of modeling and model analysis, introduce key modeling concepts, and demonstrate how to implement them using NetLogo. They also address pattern-oriented modeling, an invaluable strategy for modeling real-world problems and developing theory.This accessible and authoritative book focuses on modeling as a tool for understanding real complex systems. It explains how to pose a specific question, use observations from actual systems to design models, write and test software, and more.A hands-on introduction that guides students from conceptual design to computer implementation to analysisFilled with new examples and exercises and compatible with the latest version of NetLogoIdeal for students and researchers across the natural and social sciencesWritten by two leading practitionersSupported by extensive instructional materials at www.railsback-grimm-abm-book.com




Steven F. Railsback is adjunct professor of mathematics at Humboldt State University and a consulting environmental scientist. Volker Grimm is senior scientist in the Department of Ecological Modeling at the Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research – UFZ in Leipzig and professor of theoretical ecology at the University of Potsdam.






Praise for the first edition "Biologists . . . have been relatively slow to take advantage of enhanced computing power and unlock the potential of these techniques. This book removes any excuse."—Frontiers of Biogeography"This volume would be an excellent text for an introductory course in modeling as science, or for self-study by a mature researcher interested in learning about this important new way of doing science."—H. Van Dyke Parunak, JASSS"This book represents something I have been [awaiting] for some years now: a good and solid introduction to the field of individual- and agent-based models. . . . The book is not only a practical guide but also serves as a good introduction to the basics of 'healthy' programming. These authors are the right ones to do this as they have a strong background in the philosophical aspects as well as the practical issues of modelling."—Basic and Applied Ecology"Agent-Based and Individual-Based Modeling has the potential to foster an appreciation of the value and place of individual-based models in our field in the next generation of emerging ecologists."—Christopher X. Jon Jensen, Ecology





          Resources
      


Chapter 1




      			The Power of Networks: Six Principles That Connect Our Lives An accessible illustrated introducton to the networks we use every day, from Facebook and Google to WiFi and the Internet

What makes WiFi faster at home than at a coffee shop? How does Google order search results? Is it really true that everyone on Facebook is connected by six steps or less? The Power of Networks answers questions like these for the first time in a way that all of us can understand. Using simple language, analogies, stories, hundreds of illustrations, and no more math than simple addition and multiplication, Christopher Brinton and Mung Chiang provide a smart and accessible introduction to the handful of big ideas that drive the computer networks we use every day. The Power of Networks unifies these ideas through six fundamental principles of networking. These principles explain the difficulties in sharing network resources efficiently, how crowds can be wise or not so wise depending on the nature of their connections, why there are many layers in a network, and more. Along the way, the authors also talk with and share the special insights of renowned experts such as Google’s Eric Schmidt, former Verizon Wireless CEO Dennis Strigl, and “fathers of the Internet” Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn.




Christopher G. Brinton is the Head of Advanced Research at Zoomi Inc. and lecturer in electrical engineering at Princeton University. Mung Chiang is the John A. Edwardson Dean of the College of Engineering at Purdue University and the recipient of the 2013 National Science Foundation Waterman Award.
















Networks have played a powerful connective role in human societies since the dawn of agriculture. Brinton and Chiang document and analyze this phenomenon—and reinforce our appreciation of it.—Vint Cerf, Internet pioneer
Christopher Brinton and Mung Chiang offer an open and accessible pathway through the complexity of network design and deployment . . . a readily understood, yet commendably deep, analysis of the technology and its operation. . . . To describe this book as a course in digital citizenship would not be to overstate its importance.—John Gilbey, Times Higher Education 
Christopher Brinton and Mung Chiang both have backgrounds in electrical engineering, which combined with experience of topics like big data analytics allows them to strike an authoritative but accessible tone.—Dominic Lenton, Engineering and Technology 
The Power of Networks is a well-written and engaging book that I think many readers will find interesting and insightful.—Jason M. Graham, MAA Reviews 


      			The Mathematics of Secrets: Cryptography from Caesar Ciphers to Digital Encryption Explaining the mathematics of cryptography

The Mathematics of Secrets takes readers on a fascinating tour of the mathematics behind cryptography—the science of sending secret messages. Using a wide range of historical anecdotes and real-world examples, Joshua Holden shows how mathematical principles underpin the ways that different codes and ciphers work. He focuses on both code making and code breaking and discusses most of the ancient and modern ciphers that are currently known. He begins by looking at substitution ciphers, and then discusses how to introduce flexibility and additional notation. Holden goes on to explore polyalphabetic substitution ciphers, transposition ciphers, connections between ciphers and computer encryption, stream ciphers, public-key ciphers, and ciphers involving exponentiation. He concludes by looking at the future of ciphers and where cryptography might be headed. The Mathematics of Secrets reveals the mathematics working stealthily in the science of coded messages.A blog describing new developments and historical discoveries in cryptography related to the material in this book is accessible at http://press.princeton.edu/titles/10826.html.




Joshua Holden is professor of mathematics at the Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology.











"In The Mathematics of Secrets, Joshua Holden takes the reader on a chronological journey from Julius Caesar’s substitution cipher to modern day public-key algorithms and beyond. . . . Written for anyone with an interest in cryptography." —Noel-Ann Bradshaw, Times Higher Education 
"Complete in surveying cryptography. . . . This is a marvelous way of illustrating the use of simple mathematics in an important application that has triggered the wit of the designers and the ingenuity of the attackers since antiquity." —Adhemar Bultheel, European Mathematical Society 
"The best book I have seen on this subject." —Phil Dyke, Leonardo Reviews 
"This is a fascinating tour of the mathematics behind cryptography, showing how its principles underpin the ways that different codes and ciphers operate. . . . While it’s all about maths, the book is accessible—basic high school algebra is all that’s needed to understand and enjoy it." —Cosmos Magazine


      			Computing Skills for Biologists: A Toolbox A concise introduction to key computing skills for biologists

While biological data continues to grow exponentially in size and quality, many of today’s biologists are not trained adequately in the computing skills necessary for leveraging this information deluge. In Computing Skills for Biologists, Stefano Allesina and Madlen Wilmes present a valuable toolbox for the effective analysis of biological data.Based on the authors’ experiences teaching scientific computing at the University of Chicago, this textbook emphasizes the automation of repetitive tasks and the construction of pipelines for data organization, analysis, visualization, and publication. Stressing practice rather than theory, the book’s examples and exercises are drawn from actual biological data and solve cogent problems spanning the entire breadth of biological disciplines, including ecology, genetics, microbiology, and molecular biology. Beginners will benefit from the many examples explained step-by-step, while more seasoned researchers will learn how to combine tools to make biological data analysis robust and reproducible. The book uses free software and code that can be run on any platform.Computing Skills for Biologists is ideal for scientists wanting to improve their technical skills and instructors looking to teach the main computing tools essential for biology research in the twenty-first century.Excellent resource for acquiring comprehensive computing skillsBoth novice and experienced scientists will increase efficiency by building automated and reproducible pipelines for biological data analysisCode examples based on published data spanning the breadth of biological disciplinesDetailed solutions provided for exercises in each chapterExtensive companion website




Stefano Allesina is a professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago and a deputy editor of PLoS Computational Biology. Madlen Wilmes is a data scientist and web developer.













“This textbook helps advanced undergraduates and graduate students gain familiarity with computational skills that will allow them to do really useful research. The material tackled by the text is challenging, but Allesina and Wilmes have developed an effective way to help students learn. There isn’t anything else out there like it and I’m going to definitely adopt it for course use.”—Michael Alfaro, University of California, Los Angeles
“I admire this book’s depth and breadth of coverage.”—Matthew Gitzendanner, University of Florida 
“Computing Skills for Biologists is a valuable gift for students, and if it had been available when I was a student, I know I would have benefited greatly from it. This textbook looks into the craft of computational biology research, showing how it can be conducted with more efficiency and ease.”—Martin Rosvall, Umeå University
"Allesina and Wilmes dedicate their book to 'all biologists who thought they couldn’t code': we often thought we couldn't for lack of comprehensive resources. Computing Skills for Biologists changes this situation and should find a home on every biologist's bookshelf."—Timothée Poisot, University of Montreal


      			What Can Be Computed?: A Practical Guide to the Theory of Computation An accessible and rigorous textbook for introducing undergraduates to computer science theory

What Can Be Computed? is a uniquely accessible yet rigorous introduction to the most profound ideas at the heart of computer science. Crafted specifically for undergraduates who are studying the subject for the first time, and requiring minimal prerequisites, the book focuses on the essential fundamentals of computer science theory and features a practical approach that uses real computer programs (Python and Java) and encourages active experimentation. It is also ideal for self-study and reference.The book covers the standard topics in the theory of computation, including Turing machines and finite automata, universal computation, nondeterminism, Turing and Karp reductions, undecidability, time-complexity classes such as P and NP, and NP-completeness, including the Cook-Levin Theorem. But the book also provides a broader view of computer science and its historical development, with discussions of Turing’s original 1936 computing machines, the connections between undecidability and Gödel’s incompleteness theorem, and Karp’s famous set of twenty-one NP-complete problems.Throughout, the book recasts traditional computer science concepts by considering how computer programs are used to solve real problems. Standard theorems are stated and proven with full mathematical rigor, but motivation and understanding are enhanced by considering concrete implementations. The book’s examples and other content allow readers to view demonstrations of—and to experiment with—a wide selection of the topics it covers. The result is an ideal text for an introduction to the theory of computation.An accessible and rigorous introduction to the essential fundamentals of computer science theory, written specifically for undergraduates taking introduction to the theory of computationFeatures a practical, interactive approach using real computer programs (Python in the text, with forthcoming Java alternatives online) to enhance motivation and understandingGives equal emphasis to computability and complexityIncludes special topics that demonstrate the profound nature of key ideas in the theory of computationLecture slides and Python programs are available at whatcanbecomputed.com




John MacCormick is associate professor of computer science at Dickinson College and a leading teacher, researcher, and writer in his field. He has a PhD in computer vision from the University of Oxford and has worked in the research labs of Hewlett-Packard and Microsoft. His previous books include Nine Algorithms That Changed the Future: The Ingenious Ideas That Drive Today's Computers (Princeton). Erik Demaine and Martin Demaine created the curved crease sculpture featured on the cover of What Can Be Computed? Cover photo courtesy of the artists.











"The concept is excellent, and it fills an important gap in the available textbooks on computation theory."—Kitty Meeks, London Mathematical Society
"This wonderful book explores the theory of computing from a practical viewpoint. John MacCormick covers the basic concepts of computability and complexity, what we can and cannot compute—keeping the material grounded by connecting it with Python—the popular programming language."—Lance Fortnow, author of The Golden Ticket: P, NP, and the Search for the Impossible
"This well-designed, well-written, and accessible book assumes minimal prerequisites, explains the intuition behind its proofs, and has the unique feature of using Python as a computational model, which makes the presentation practical. I especially like its inclusion of historical content."—Jianfeng Lu, Duke University
"I would love to adopt this text for my introduction to theory of computation course. The level and coverage is perfect for undergraduates. The text hits the sweet spot by carefully presenting the ideas without an overwhelming level of mathematical sophistication. I want my students to come away from the course with the big ideas rather than struggling through mathematical notation and formal proofs, and this text does exactly that. I love that the main computational model is Python, and I think this makes the content more real for students."—Jill Zimmerman, Goucher College
"What Can Be Computed? should succeed brilliantly in capturing the imagination of students. Using Python as a model of computation, MacCormick is able to introduce the greatest ideas in computer science theory as quickly and intuitively as possible. On the other hand, no rigor is ever lost. Over and over, he finds ways to take very complex concepts and boil them down to small and concrete components. Core concepts are presented in a beautiful and accessible way."—Matt Franklin, University of California, Davis





          Resources
      


Table of Contents


Introduction


Preface




      			The Ethical Engineer: Contemporary Concepts and Cases An exploration of the ethics of practical engineering through analyses of eighteen rich case studies

The Ethical Engineer explores ethical issues that arise in engineering practice, from technology transfer to privacy protection to whistle-blowing. Presenting key ethics concepts and real-life examples of engineering work, Robert McGinn illuminates the ethical dimension of engineering practice and helps students and professionals determine engineers’ context-specific ethical responsibilities.McGinn highlights the “ethics gap” in contemporary engineering—the disconnect between the meager exposure to ethical issues in engineering education and the ethical challenges frequently faced by engineers. He elaborates four “fundamental ethical responsibilities of engineers” (FEREs) and uses them to shed light on the ethical dimensions of diverse case studies, including ones from emerging engineering fields. The cases range from the Union Carbide pesticide plant disaster in India to the Google Street View project. After examining the extent to which the actions of engineers in the cases align with the FEREs, McGinn recapitulates key ideas used in analyzing the cases and spells out the main lessons they suggest. He identifies technical, social, and personal factors that induce or press engineers to engage in misconduct and discusses organizational, legal, and individual resources available to those interested in ethically responsible engineering practice.Combining probing analysis and nuanced ethical evaluation of engineering conduct in its social and technical contexts, The Ethical Engineer will be invaluable to engineering students and professionals.Meets the need for engineering-related ethics studyElaborates four fundamental ethical responsibilities of engineersDiscusses diverse, global cases of ethical issues in established and emerging engineering fieldsIdentifies resources and options for ethically responsible engineering practiceProvides discussion questions for each case




Robert McGinn is professor of management science and engineering and of science, technology, and society at Stanford University. He is the author of Science, Technology, and Society (Prentice Hall).






"This is a crucial and timely book on ethics in engineering and science by one of the world's foremost ethicists of technology and society. Every engineering department should read and use this book for planning their curricula."—Stephen R. Barley, University of California, Santa Barbara
"The Ethical Engineer offers a highly original and rich conceptual portrait of the many ethical facets of engineering practice today. Through a sophisticated analysis of issues encountered in a vast array of context-specific domains and engineering fields, this book offers powerful and much-needed tools to equip engineers with an ethical mindset that informs their understanding and guides them in their day-to-day professional conduct."—Rafael Pardo, director of the BBVA Foundation
"Engineering and science are among the strongest of social forces, but with their long latency, the good and bad resulting from these fields can be difficult to foresee. Nuclear weapons, combustion engines, chemistry-based agriculture, the internet, and machine intelligence—all are examples of areas posing ethical challenges for society and the educational institutions tasked with the development of citizenship. Timely and welcome, The Ethical Engineer articulates thoughtful, robust approaches to such complex issues."—Sandip Tiwari, Cornell University
"McGinn has written a highly accessible and very useful guide for courses on engineering ethics. Students will acquire a sense of the issues they should be concerned with as well as a feel for the challenges they will face as engineers. There is no other book quite like this one, and it will be a boon to engineering education everywhere."—Daniel Doneson, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
"This tremendously valuable book does a good job of distilling contemporary issues in engineering ethics and of making the case that ethics must be included in an engineer's education. The book effectively incorporates theory, examples, and resources and demonstrates that engineering ethics is continuously evolving."—Raluca Scarlat, University of Wisconsin–Madison
"In the past, I have struggled to find a book that contains engineering ethics cases with adequate ethical review and analysis. The Ethical Engineer has them and I would recommend it for classroom use."—Dianne Quigley, Brown University


      			A Student's Guide to Python for Physical Modeling: Updated Edition A fully updated tutorial on the basics of the Python programming language for science students

Python is a computer programming language that is rapidly gaining popularity throughout the sciences. This fully updated edition of A Student’s Guide to Python for Physical Modeling aims to help you, the student, teach yourself enough of the Python programming language to get started with physical modeling. You will learn how to install an open-source Python programming environment and use it to accomplish many common scientific computing tasks: importing, exporting, and visualizing data; numerical analysis; and simulation. No prior programming experience is assumed.This tutorial focuses on fundamentals and introduces a wide range of useful techniques, including:Basic Python programming and scriptingNumerical arraysTwo- and three-dimensional graphicsMonte Carlo simulationsNumerical methods, including solving ordinary differential equationsImage processingAnimationNumerous code samples and exercises—with solutions—illustrate new ideas as they are introduced. Web-based resources also accompany this guide and include code samples, data sets, and more. This current edition brings the discussion of the Python language, Spyder development environment, and Anaconda distribution up to date. In addition, a new appendix introduces Jupyter notebooks.




Jesse M. Kinder is assistant professor of physics at the Oregon Institute of Technology. Philip Nelson is professor of physics at the University of Pennsylvania. His books include From Photon to Neuron (Princeton) and Physical Models of Living Systems.






"Praise for the previous edition: "At a brief 160 pages, it is quite possible for a motivated student to complete it in just a few sittings. . . . [A] fine introduction.""—American Journal of Physics
"Praise for the previous edition: "The text serves as an excellent stepping stone into the world of using Python in computational science for undergraduate students with a strong background in mathematics.""—Kevin Thielen and Vivienne Tien, Computing in Science & Engineering
Praise for the previous edition: "Kinder and Nelson's engaging introduction to scientific programming in Python is careful and thorough, and focuses on actual essentials. Bread-and-butter concepts and techniques, belonging in every computational scientist's toolbox, are presented with well-thought-out examples drawn from daily research practice. This is a clever text, inviting students to take that most important step: to dive right in and start coding."—Cornelis Storm, Eindhoven University of Technology
Praise for the previous edition: "Kinder and Nelson have written a friendly and succinct, yet surprisingly comprehensive, introduction to scientific programming in Python. It's written not just for computational scientists, but for anyone who needs to plot and analyze experimental data, numerically solve equations, or learn the basics of programming. Even students who have experience in programming will appreciate the thought-provoking exercises and guidelines for getting the most out of Python."—Vinothan N. Manoharan, Harvard University
Praise for the previous edition: "This book is tailor-made for physical scientists beginning to do computation. More than in any other programming book I've read, the authors are conscientious—they anticipate and troubleshoot the areas of confusion readers might encounter. Kinder and Nelson carefully and effectively guide readers toward the goal of formulating a computational problem and solving it."—Justin Bois, California Institute of Technology
Praise for the previous edition: "Like patient driving instructors, Kinder and Nelson guide the hands of novice programming students from the get-go, helping them to avoid obstacles and crashes. By the end of the book, students should be racing around confidently like pros, using Python to solve scientific problems of data analysis, modeling, and visualization. A great textbook for a first course in modern scientific programming in any context, and one that I'll be using myself."—Garnet Kin-Lic Chan, Princeton University
Praise for the previous edition: "This book covers the basics of Python programming language, with an emphasis on physical modeling. It provides a very useful introduction to Python for undergraduate students and others who have never programmed before."—Zeljko Ivezic, University of Washington
Praise for the previous edition: "This is an excellent introductory text, aimed at those with little to no experience in programming. In a clear and concise manner, the authors cover or touch upon all the important aspects of computational science in Python. They guide readers by explaining how to best perform certain common tasks in scientific computing. The book's examples and user exercises are well selected."—Quentin Caudron, Princeton University





          Additional Links
      


Code samples, data sets, updates, errata, and more are available at http://physicalmodelingwithpython.blogspot.com 


      Professors: For instructors only, additional materials are available. These include an Instructor’s Guide, including solutions to the lab assignments, additional comments, and two additional projects with solutions; and, a Python code archive with codes mentioned in the Instructor’s Guide, ready to run in Python. To request these materials, please email your request along with your name, institution, course, semester, and enrollment to:: Ingrid_Gnerlich@press.princeton.edu.





      			The Great Formal Machinery Works: Theories of Deduction and Computation at the Origins of the Digital Age 

The information age owes its existence to a little-known but crucial development, the theoretical study of logic and the foundations of mathematics. The Great Formal Machinery Works draws on original sources and rare archival materials to trace the history of the theories of deduction and computation that laid the logical foundations for the digital revolution.Jan von Plato examines the contributions of figures such as Aristotle; the nineteenth-century German polymath Hermann Grassmann; George Boole, whose Boolean logic would prove essential to programming languages and computing; Ernst Schröder, best known for his work on algebraic logic; and Giuseppe Peano, cofounder of mathematical logic. Von Plato shows how the idea of a formal proof in mathematics emerged gradually in the second half of the nineteenth century, hand in hand with the notion of a formal process of computation. A turning point was reached by 1930, when Kurt Gödel conceived his celebrated incompleteness theorems. They were an enormous boost to the study of formal languages and computability, which were brought to perfection by the end of the 1930s with precise theories of formal languages and formal deduction and parallel theories of algorithmic computability. Von Plato describes how the first theoretical ideas of a computer soon emerged in the work of Alan Turing in 1936 and John von Neumann some years later.Shedding new light on this crucial chapter in the history of science, The Great Formal Machinery Works is essential reading for students and researchers in logic, mathematics, and computer science.




Jan von Plato is professor of philosophy at the University of Helsinki. His books include Elements of Logical Reasoning and Structural Proof Theory.











"An important contribution to the study of the history of mathematics, and any student, educator, or practitioner of mathematics or computer science, would benefit from reading this work."—Mark Causapin, MAA Reviews
"In reading von Plato’s book the attention of the scholarly reader will be always captured."—L. Bellotti, History and Philosophy of Logic
"This book presents an informed and informative hisotry of a crucially important part of mathematics. . . . a valuable addition to our corporate understanding."—Rob Ashmore, Mathematics Today
"Von Plato's book is a lively and provocative history of mathematical logic, centered on the game-changing discoveries of Gödel, Turing, and Gentzen. Every mathematician interested in foundations will enjoy this book, and will likely lose some misconceptions as well as gain new insights."—John Stillwell, author of Elements of Mathematics: From Euclid to Gödel
"Von Plato covers an immense territory with an impressive amount of novel things to say. He has written a very original book that is a major scholarly contribution to the history of logic."—Paolo Mancosu, author of The Adventure of Reason: Interplay between Philosophy of Mathematics and Mathematical Logic, 1900–1940
"This is a fine book that offers an informed and informative discussion of the development of modern mathematical logic."—Raymond Turner, professor emeritus, University of Essex


      			Noncooperative Game Theory: An Introduction for Engineers and Computer Scientists 

Noncooperative Game Theory is aimed at students interested in using game theory as a design methodology for solving problems in engineering and computer science. João Hespanha shows that such design challenges can be analyzed through game theoretical perspectives that help to pinpoint each problem’s essence: Who are the players? What are their goals? Will the solution to “the game” solve the original design problem? Using the fundamentals of game theory, Hespanha explores these issues and more.The use of game theory in technology design is a recent development arising from the intrinsic limitations of classical optimization-based designs. In optimization, one attempts to find values for parameters that minimize suitably defined criteria—such as monetary cost, energy consumption, or heat generated. However, in most engineering applications, there is always some uncertainty as to how the selected parameters will affect the final objective. Through a sequential and easy-to-understand discussion, Hespanha examines how to make sure that the selection leads to acceptable performance, even in the presence of uncertainty—the unforgiving variable that can wreck engineering designs. Hespanha looks at such standard topics as zero-sum, non-zero-sum, and dynamics games and includes a MATLAB guide to coding.Noncooperative Game Theory offers students a fresh way of approaching engineering and computer science applications.An introduction to game theory applications for students of engineering and computer science Materials presented sequentially and in an easy-to-understand fashionTopics explore zero-sum, non-zero-sum, and dynamics gamesMATLAB commands are included




João P. Hespanha is a professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of California, Santa Barbara. He is the author of Linear Systems Theory (Princeton).






"Noncooperative Game Theory offers students a fresh way of approaching engineering and computer science applications."—Mathematical Reviews
"João Hespanha's standing in the field is stellar and students will appreciate his textbook in courses. This well-written book is clear and focused, and organized around suitable modules and lectures. It contains compelling theoretical and computational exercises."—Magnus Egerstedt, coauthor of Graph Theoretic Methods in Multiagent Networks
"This book is targeted to first-year graduate or senior elective undergraduate engineering students. While there are several advanced textbooks available on noncooperative game theory, there are very few that are specifically targeted towards an engineering audience. This textbook covers a variety of game theoretic concepts that are relevant to engineering applications and forms a strong basis for further reading."—Jeff Shamma, Georgia Institute of Technology


      			Natural Complexity: A Modeling Handbook 

This book provides a short, hands-on introduction to the science of complexity using simple computational models of natural complex systems—with models and exercises drawn from physics, chemistry, geology, and biology. By working through the models and engaging in additional computational explorations suggested at the end of each chapter, readers very quickly develop an understanding of how complex structures and behaviors can emerge in natural phenomena as diverse as avalanches, forest fires, earthquakes, chemical reactions, animal flocks, and epidemic diseases.Natural Complexity provides the necessary topical background, complete source codes in Python, and detailed explanations for all computational models. Ideal for undergraduates, beginning graduate students, and researchers in the physical and natural sciences, this unique handbook requires no advanced mathematical knowledge or programming skills and is suitable for self-learners with a working knowledge of precalculus and high-school physics.Self-contained and accessible, Natural Complexity enables readers to identify and quantify common underlying structural and dynamical patterns shared by the various systems and phenomena it examines, so that they can form their own answers to the questions of what natural complexity is and how it arises.




Paul Charbonneau is professor of physics at the University of Montreal.






"This book is a clear introduction to experimentation with complex systems that will appeal to multiple audiences. . . . It will serve as an example of pedagogical clarity and skill for anyone responsible for teaching the physical sciences."—H. Van Dyke Parunak, Computing Reviews
"There is a certain enthusiasm distilled by the author all through the book, transporting the reader on a journey of discovery of a chosen set of complex systems, from where diverse insights into complexity science can be grasped. . . . Natural Complexity constitutes an excellent introduction to some perspectives about complexity science that might be appealing to a broad range of readers."—Miguel A. F. Sanjuán, Contemporary Physics
"In this delightfully engaging introduction to complexity, Charbonneau reveals how a bewildering array of complicated structures emerge naturally from exceedingly simple rules of behavior and engagement. More than that, however, he provides the necessary tools and encouragement for readers to continue to explore this extraordinary landscape on their own and uncover its hidden mysteries."—Thomas J. Bogdan, former president of the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research
"What a fascinating introduction into the world of nonlinear phenomena. Paul Charbonneau is taking us on a roller-coaster ride through sandpile avalanches, forest fires, and earthquakes."—Markus Aschwanden, author of Self-Organized Criticality in Astrophysics
"The appeal of this book is twofold. It provides practical examples of computational modeling. It also motivates readers by detailing breathtaking systems in the real world. The combination is winning."—Aimee Norton, Stanford University
"With Natural Complexity, Charbonneau boils the hard science of nature down to simple concepts and expressions that are both intuitive and informative. A must-read for any curious mind."—Scott McIntosh, director of the High Altitude Observatory, National Center for Atmospheric Research
"Charbonneau's writing style is enthusiastic and clear."—Sidney Redner, coauthor of A Kinetic View of Statistical Physics
"Natural Complexity takes readers to new frontiers in the physics of complexity."—Simon DeDeo, Carnegie Mellon University and the Santa Fe Institute


      			The Eternal Darkness: A Personal History of Deep-Sea Exploration 

Until a few decades ago, the ocean depths were almost as mysterious and inaccessible as outer space. Oceans cover two-thirds of the earth’s surface with an average depth of more than two miles — yet humans had never ventured more than a few hundred feet below the waves. One of the great scientific and archaeological feats of our time has been finally to cast light on the “eternal darkness” of the deep sea. This is the story of that achievement, told by the man who has done more than any other to make it possible: Robert Ballard. Ballard discovered the wreck of the Titanic. He led the teams that discovered hydrothermal vents and “black smokers” — cracks in the ocean floor where springs of superheated water support some of the strangest life-forms on the planet. He was a diver on the team that explored the mid-Atlantic ridge for the first time, confirming the theory of plate tectonics. Today, using a nuclear submarine from the U.S. Navy, he’s exploring the ancient trade routes of the Mediterranean and the Black Sea for the remains of historic vessels and their cargo. In this book, he combines science, history, spectacular illustrations, and first-hand stories from his own expeditions in a uniquely personal account of how twentieth-century explorers have pushed back the frontiers of technology to take us into the midst of a world we could once only guess at. Ballard begins in 1930 with William Beebe and Otis Barton, pioneers of the ocean depths who made the world’s first deep-sea dives in a cramped steel sphere. He introduces us to Auguste and Jacques Piccard, whose “Bathyscaph”descended in 1960 to the lowest point on the ocean floor. He reviews the celebrated advances made by Jacques Cousteau. He describes his own major discoveries — from sea-floor spreading to black smokers — as well as his technical breakthroughs, including the development of remote-operated underwater vehicles and the revolutionary search techniques that led to the discovery and exploration of the Titanic, the Nazi battleship Bismarck, ancient trading vessels, and other great ships. Readers will come away with a richer understanding of history, earth science, biology, and marine technology — and a new appreciation for the remarkable men and women who have explored some of the most remote and fascinating places on the planet.

Awards and Recognition

Winner of the Commonwealth Award for Science and Invention, Sigma Xi
Association of American Publishers Award for Best Professional/Scholarly Book in Geography and Earth Sciences
Commonwealth Award for Science and Invention, Sigma Xi
Honorable Mention for the 2000 Award for Best Professional/Scholarly Book in Geography and Earth Sciences, Association of American Publishers





Robert D. Ballard, PhD, is President of Ocean Exploration Trust, director of the Center for Ocean Exploration, professor of oceanography at the Graduate School of Oceanography at the University of Rhode Island, Graduate School of Oceanography and the author of several bestselling books.



















"Bob Ballard, building on the early work of Jacques Cousteau, is the preeminent pioneer in truly deep sea exploration and here is the fascinating, gripping story that only he is qualified to tell."—Walter Cronkite
"Bob Ballard's The Eternal Darkness chronicles the exciting 20th-century advances in underwater technology, many of them his own. Their contributions to deep ocean knowledge, exploration, discovery, salvage, and natural resource utilization have forever changed the way we view and understand our planet's oceans, and will, in the future, change the way we care for our seas. Ballard now joins Cousteau as another inspired visionary."—Scott Carpenter
"Bob Ballard is a tenacious explorer of the deep ocean and discoverer of ancient sea treasures. Two thousand years ago no trains, planes, or automobiles existed. Most transportation was by sea. Important knowledge of the past can only be uncovered from where it lies, buried in the ocean floor. Bob exhibits his fascination with the unknown by uncovering history that lies at the bottom of the sea floor that is critical to our understanding of the ancient world."—Jean-Michel Cousteau
"Ballard is one of the great explorers of the age. He is not only a great explorer, but a gifted story-teller and an evangelist for science. His joy and contagious excitement in exploration and science have captured the imagination of thousands of students, and rescuing them from dull science teachers, has converted them to pursuing careers in scientific discovery. Now in The Eternal Darkness he draws on all his talent, and his hair-raising experiences, to capture the rest of us in a great adventurous read."—John F. Lehman
"While making some of the most significant discoveries of all time, from finding the Titanic to exposing the geophysical processes that cause oceans to form and continents to move, explorer-scientist Robert Ballard has lived adventures that combine the best of scientific research and Indiana Jones. Bristling with suspense and laced with wry humor, The Eternal Darkness will captivate even the most seasoned landlubber."—Sylvia A. Earle
"Ballard's perspective on specific events in the history of deep-sea explorations is fresh and exciting. This is an important record of the remarkable progression in technology from extremely primitive underwater diving bells to a multiplicity of manned and unmanned systems enabling human presence in the deep ocean."—J. Frederick Grassle, Rutgers University


      			Understanding the Digital World: What You Need to Know about Computers, the Internet, Privacy, and Security The basics of how computer hardware, software, and systems work, and the risks they create for our privacy and security

Computers are everywhere. Some of them are highly visible, in laptops, tablets, cell phones, and smart watches. But most are invisible, like those in appliances, cars, medical equipment, transportation systems, power grids, and weapons. We never see the myriad computers that quietly collect, share, and sometimes leak vast amounts of personal data about us. Through computers, governments and companies increasingly monitor what we do. Social networks and advertisers know far more about us than we should be comfortable with, using information we freely give them. Criminals have all-too-easy access to our data. Do we truly understand the power of computers in our world?Understanding the Digital World explains how computer hardware, software, networks, and systems work. Topics include how computers are built and how they compute; what programming is and why it is difficult; how the Internet and the web operate; and how all of these affect our security, privacy, property, and other important social, political, and economic issues. This book also touches on fundamental ideas from computer science and some of the inherent limitations of computers. It includes numerous color illustrations, notes on sources for further exploration, and a glossary to explain technical terms and buzzwords.Understanding the Digital World is a must-read for all who want to know more about computers and communications. It explains, precisely and carefully, not only how they operate but also how they influence our daily lives, in terms anyone can understand, no matter what their experience and knowledge of technology.




Brian W. Kernighan is a professor in the Department of Computer Science at Princeton University. He is the coauthor of ten other books, including the computing classic The C Programming Language (Prentice Hall). He lives in Princeton, New Jersey.











"[Kernighan's] credentials as a computer scientist are stellar but what comes through in this book is a humanitarian concern about the place of technology in the modern world. . . . The grounding [the book] provides in the fundamentals of computing and how the technology interacts with our lives will remain relevant for a very long time."—Steve Mansfield-Devine, Network Security
"Kernighan offers elucidations of the diversified communications array of cell phones and land lines, internet protocols, the web, search engines, malware, cryptography, online anonymity, cloud computing, and the emerging 'Internet of Things.'"—Choice
"This is the clearest and simplest explanation of the world we now all depend on—how it works and why it does what it does—from one of our best-known inventors. Everyone on Earth needs to read it."—Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Alphabet Inc. and Google
"This book takes the mystery out of computers and the Internet, and everyone can learn from it. With a friendly and accessible style, Kernighan connects what is happening inside machines to the news of the day and developments about the digital world."—Harry Lewis, coauthor of Blown to Bits: Your Life, Liberty, and Happiness after the Digital Explosion
"Kernighan tells us exactly what we need to know about computers and computer science, focusing on ideas that are useful and interesting for everyday computer users. He covers a fascinating range of topics, including fundamentals such as computer hardware, programming, algorithms, and networks, as well as politically charged issues related to government surveillance, privacy, and Internet neutrality."—John MacCormick, Dickinson College
"Understanding the Digital World provides a broad overview of computers and electronic communications for a general audience. The book flows smoothly from topic to topic, and readers from diverse backgrounds will find it accessible."—Bryan Respass, Bergen County Academies


      			Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency Technologies: A Comprehensive Introduction An authoritative introduction to the exciting new technologies of digital money

Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency Technologies provides a comprehensive introduction to the revolutionary yet often misunderstood new technologies of digital currency. Whether you are a student, software developer, tech entrepreneur, or researcher in computer science, this authoritative and self-contained book tells you everything you need to know about the new global money for the Internet age.How do Bitcoin and its block chain actually work? How secure are your bitcoins? How anonymous are their users? Can cryptocurrencies be regulated? These are some of the many questions this book answers. It begins by tracing the history and development of Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies, and then gives the conceptual and practical foundations you need to engineer secure software that interacts with the Bitcoin network as well as to integrate ideas from Bitcoin into your own projects. Topics include decentralization, mining, the politics of Bitcoin, altcoins and the cryptocurrency ecosystem, the future of Bitcoin, and more.An essential introduction to the new technologies of digital currencyCovers the history and mechanics of Bitcoin and the block chain, security, decentralization, anonymity, politics and regulation, altcoins, and much moreFeatures an accompanying website that includes instructional videos for each chapter, homework problems, programming assignments, and lecture slidesAlso suitable for use with the authors’ Coursera online courseElectronic solutions manual (available only to professors)

Awards and Recognition

Honorable Mention for the 2017 PROSE Award in Computing and Information Sciences, Association of American Publishers





Arvind Narayanan is assistant professor of computer science at Princeton University. Joseph Bonneau is a postdoctoral researcher at the Applied Cryptography Group at Stanford University. Edward Felten is director of Princeton's Center for Information Technology Policy. Andrew Miller is a PhD student in computer science at the University of Maryland. Steven Goldfeder is a PhD student in computer science at Princeton.






"For people interested in the inner workings of Bitcoin and other crypto-currencies, this is an excellent book."—Choice
"This book provides an outstanding treatment of a complex phenomenon—the rise of cryptocurrency technologies."—Wilko Bolt, Journal of Economic Literature
"This book is a very nice introduction to Bitcoin, its structure, how it can be used (and possibly abused), and how it might evolve in the future. . . . The authors have a relaxed tone and this book could easily be incorporated into an undergraduate curriculum."—Jeffrey Putnam, Association for Computing Machinery Computing Reviews
"Block chain technology is set to disrupt many different industries. If you want to get up to speed on this fast-moving technology, this book should be your first stop."—Campbell R. Harvey, Duke University
"Among this book's many features are lots of nice, concrete examples and pleasant anecdotes, as well as a highly readable and enjoyable history of cryptocurrencies. Strongly recommended."—Tyler Moore, University of Tulsa





          Resources
      


Chapter 1


Chapter - Other




      			Making a Good Life: An Ethnography of Nature, Ethics, and Reproduction 

Making a Good Life takes a timely look at the ideas and values that inform how people think about reproduction and assisted reproductive technologies. In an era of heightened scrutiny about parenting and reproduction, fears about environmental degradation, and the rise of the biotechnology industry, Katharine Dow delves into the reproductive ethics of those who do not have a personal stake in assisted reproductive technologies, but who are building lives inspired and influenced by environmentalism and concerns about the natural world’s future.Moving away from experiences of infertility treatments tied to the clinic and laboratory, Dow instead explores reproduction and assisted reproductive technologies as topics of public concern and debate, and she examines how people living in a coastal village in rural Scotland make ethical decisions and judgments about these matters. In particular, Dow engages with people’s ideas about nature and naturalness, and how these relate to views about parenting and building stable environments for future generations. Taking into account the ways daily responsibilities and commitments are balanced with moral values, Dow suggests there is still much to uncover about reproductive ethics.Analyzing how ideas about reproduction intersect with wider ethical struggles, Making a Good Life offers a new approach to researching, thinking, and writing about nature, ethics, and reproduction.




Katharine Dow is a research associate in the Reproductive Sociology Research Group at the University of Cambridge.











"[Dow's] musings about dong anthropological fieldwork in Spey Bay add a layer of brilliant reflexivity to her scholarly account."—Barbara J. King, Times Literary Supplement
"Why are new reproductive technologies an ethical issue, and how do people make judgments in this regard? In this sensitive portrayal of individuals involved in a wildlife center in a Scottish village, Dow reveals how ethical positions are adopted by reference to everyday experiences and relations. The ethics of reproduction comes to be connected to ideas of a good life, responsible technologizing, environmental sustainability, natural parenting, and altruistic communities."—Nigel Rapport FRSE, University of St Andrews
"In Making a Good Life, Dow offers a creative, original examination of ideas about nature, reproduction, and what ethical life entails for inhabitants of Spey Bay in northeast Scotland. The delicate web she spins between her chosen themes demonstrates their salience far beyond the contexts described. Indeed, context is just one of the fertile notions in play here as conceptions of the good life are shown to reach across domains and distant geographic locations—with implications for all of us who are interested in the future."—Janet Carsten, University of Edinburgh
"This beautifully written book challenges traditional accounts of nature, reproduction, and ethics, not only by demonstrating new relationships between them, but also by radically redefining these core concepts. Dow's magnificent work sets a new course for the future of reproductive studies and the social study of ethics, kinship, and the environment."—Sarah Franklin, University of Cambridge
"Making a Good Life takes the innovative step of looking outside the medical domain to examine how people in the broader population think about reproduction and assisted reproductive technologies. Contending that there are links to be made between how people think about reproduction, ethics, and nature, this book will be widely read and taught by anthropologists, sociologists, and ethicists."—Rene Almeling, Yale University
"With impressive scholarship and accessible writing, this engaging and distinctive book delves into key contemporary concerns: assisted reproductive technologies, ethics, environmentalism, and the natural world. A lively and striking work."—Maureen McNeil, emeritus professor of sociology, Lancaster University


      			Digital Keywords: A Vocabulary of Information Society and Culture How the digital revolution has shaped our language

In the age of search, keywords increasingly organize research, teaching, and even thought itself. Inspired by Raymond Williams’s 1976 classic Keywords, the timely collection Digital Keywords gathers pointed, provocative short essays on more than two dozen keywords by leading and rising digital media scholars from the areas of anthropology, digital humanities, history, political science, philosophy, religious studies, rhetoric, science and technology studies, and sociology. Digital Keywords examines and critiques the rich lexicon animating the emerging field of digital studies.This collection broadens our understanding of how we talk about the modern world, particularly of the vocabulary at work in information technologies. Contributors scrutinize each keyword independently: for example, the recent pairing of digital and analog is separated, while classic terms such as community, culture, event, memory, and democracy are treated in light of their historical and intellectual importance. Metaphors of the cloud in cloud computing and the mirror in data mirroring combine with recent and radical uses of terms such as information, sharing, gaming, algorithm, and internet to reveal previously hidden insights into contemporary life. Bookended by a critical introduction and a list of over two hundred other digital keywords, these essays provide concise, compelling arguments about our current mediated condition.Digital Keywords delves into what language does in today’s information revolution and why it matters.

Awards and Recognition

Finalist for the 2017 Susanne K. Langer Award for Outstanding Scholarship in the Ecology of Symbolic Form, Media Ecology Association





Benjamin Peters is assistant professor of communication at the University of Tulsa and affiliated faculty at the Information Society Project at Yale Law School.






"[A] new and revolutionary publication. . . . Digital Keywords serves as an in-depth interrogation of the meaning and development of digitised language. . . . Those wishing to gain a deeper understanding of the modern, digital world we all inhabit would be well advised to begin by taking a look at this book. Just as Keywords made its way firmly onto reference shelves in the 1970s, so too will Digital Keywords today."—Jade Fell, Engineering and Technology
"This a good springboard to spark a discussion about the cultural and social significance of a select set of words in the context of a computer-mediated society and culture."—Choice
"Digital Keywords interrogates some of the words at the center of our socio-technical world, revealing the way in which the digital has reconfigured culture. This inspiring book is essential for all who are trying to understand our contemporary mediated society. It's a pure delight for anyone who hasn't stopped to think about the power of these words."—danah boyd, founder of Data & Society and author of It's Complicated: The Social Lives of Networked Teens
"Digital Keywords is fascinating, erudite, informative, and delightful. This is a cabinet of present-day wonders to which I'm sure I'll return many times."—Todd Gitlin, Columbia University
"The distinguished contributors of Digital Keywords analyze the ways language has changed as a result of the digital revolution. The result is an engaging and readable tour through important concepts in scholarly debate and public discourse."—Daniel Kreiss, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill


      			Humanities Data Analysis: Case Studies with Python A practical guide to data-intensive humanities research using the Python programming language

The use of quantitative methods in the humanities and related social sciences has increased considerably in recent years, allowing researchers to discover patterns in a vast range of source materials. Despite this growth, there are few resources addressed to students and scholars who wish to take advantage of these powerful tools. Humanities Data Analysis offers the first intermediate-level guide to quantitative data analysis for humanities students and scholars using the Python programming language. This practical textbook, which assumes a basic knowledge of Python, teaches readers the necessary skills for conducting humanities research in the rapidly developing digital environment.The book begins with an overview of the place of data science in the humanities, and proceeds to cover data carpentry: the essential techniques for gathering, cleaning, representing, and transforming textual and tabular data. Then, drawing from real-world, publicly available data sets that cover a variety of scholarly domains, the book delves into detailed case studies. Focusing on textual data analysis, the authors explore such diverse topics as network analysis, genre theory, onomastics, literacy, author attribution, mapping, stylometry, topic modeling, and time series analysis. Exercises and resources for further reading are provided at the end of each chapter.An ideal resource for humanities students and scholars aiming to take their Python skills to the next level, Humanities Data Analysis illustrates the benefits that quantitative methods can bring to complex research questions.Appropriate for advanced undergraduates, graduate students, and scholars with a basic knowledge of PythonApplicable to many humanities disciplines, including history, literature, and sociologyOffers real-world case studies using publicly available data setsProvides exercises at the end of each chapter for students to test acquired skillsEmphasizes visual storytelling via data visualizations




Folgert Karsdorp is a postdoctoral researcher at the Meertens Institute of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences. Mike Kestemont is assistant professor of literature at the University of Antwerp. Twitter @Mike_Kestemont Allen Riddell is assistant professor of information science at Indiana University.






"Humanities Data Analysis provides readers with a theoretical perspective on a range of powerful methods as well as practical example code in Python to get started on new projects. What sets this book truly apart is how every chapter acts as a little detective story, motivated by compelling, complicated, real-data examples that will resonate with students."—David Mimno, Cornell University
"Guiding readers through substantive case studies in data analysis, this impressive and unique textbook is a great gift to the humanities and social sciences, not only to undergraduate and graduate students but to scholars at all proficiency levels. It provides a standard for meaningful computational analysis against which other textbooks and scholarship will be measured."—Andrew Goldstone, Rutgers University
"This is an excellent introduction to a set of methods and approaches to doing computational text analysis. It will be an invaluable resource in helping humanists develop computational literacy for working with data in Python."—Trevor Owens, American University
"Humanities Data Analysis is a much-welcome addition to the texts available for teaching programming and the digital humanities in college and university classrooms."—Brad Pasanek, University of Virginia
"This book will be a great help to humanities students and scholars learning to use digital data. The authors carefully explain different methods for exploring and analyzing the data, and they unpack formulas in a wonderfully transparent way. Humanities Data Analysis will educate and inspire a multitude of new digital humanists as well as those already working in the field."—Karina van Dalen-Oskam, Huygens Institute and University of Amsterdam


      			Painting by Numbers: Data-Driven Histories of Nineteenth-Century Art A pathbreaking history of art that uses digital research and economic tools to reveal enduring inequities in the formation of the art historical canon

Painting by Numbers presents a groundbreaking blend of art historical and social scientific methods to chart, for the first time, the sheer scale of nineteenth-century artistic production. With new quantitative evidence for more than five hundred thousand works of art, Diana Seave Greenwald provides fresh insights into the nineteenth century, and the extent to which art historians have focused on a limited—and potentially biased—sample of artwork from that time. She addresses long-standing questions about the effects of industrialization, gender, and empire on the art world, and she models more expansive approaches for studying art history in the age of the digital humanities.Examining art in France, the United States, and the United Kingdom, Greenwald features datasets created from indices and exhibition catalogs that—to date—have been used primarily as finding aids. From this body of information, she reveals the importance of access to the countryside for painters showing images of nature at the Paris Salon, the ways in which time-consuming domestic responsibilities pushed women artists in the United States to work in lower-prestige genres, and how images of empire were largely absent from the walls of London’s Royal Academy at the height of British imperial power. Ultimately, Greenwald considers how many works may have been excluded from art historical inquiry and shows how data can help reintegrate them into the history of art, even after such pieces have disappeared or faded into obscurity.Upending traditional perspectives on the art historical canon, Painting by Numbers offers an innovative look at the nineteenth-century art world and its legacy.

The surprising partnership of art and data





Diana Seave Greenwald is assistant curator of the collection at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston.











"Diana Seave Greenwald’s Painting by Numbers: Data-Driven Histories of Nineteenth-Century Art is an ambitious study that synthesizes two disparate approaches of scholarship: art history and economic analysis. . . . Greenwald is a pioneer in the field who is willing to explore new perspectives and challenge past presumptions. The book paves the way for similar interdisciplinary studies to follow. . . . Painting by Numbers shows the promise of what can be achieved when an abundance of information is wedded with insightful scholarship."—Matt Garklavs, ARLIS/NA Reviews
"Painting by Numbers beautifully deploys economic history and quantitative analysis to gain new insight into nineteenth-century art. Greenwald’s groundbreaking, generous book shows the power of data to expand art history’s interpretive possibilities."—Steven Nelson, dean of the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts, National Gallery of Art
"This groundbreaking, thought-provoking book employs datasets and socioeconomic analytical tools to tell superbly documented and compelling stories about the artists, artworks, patrons, and markets that drove artistic production and consumption in England, France, and the United States during the long nineteenth century. The ease with which Greenwald deploys her statistics should encourage broader use of these investigative techniques."—Eleanor Jones Harvey, author of Alexander von Humboldt and the United States: Art, Nature, and Culture
"Paintings are motionless, but Painting by Numbers shows that nineteenth-century art was shaped by the dynamics of distance and time. Domestic duties constrained women’s art in the United States, cheap railway travel influenced bucolic painting in France, and the British Empire was depicted as picturesque, sometimes by artists who had never even been there. All of this and more is measured quite precisely in this innovative and engaging book."—Avner Offer, coauthor of The Nobel Factor: The Prize in Economics, Social Democracy, and the Market Turn
"Painting by Numbers brings together digital research and econometric tools to identify patterns that have not been previously visible in the exhibition of nineteenth-century artworks. Greenwald’s data is fascinating and her argument, which reconsiders peasant painting, women artists, and imperialism, is an important one."—Wendy Katz, author of Humbug!: The Politics of Art Criticism in New York City’s Penny Press
"Satisfying and eminently readable, Painting by Numbers offers new insights on the broad contours of U.S., French, and British nineteenth-century art history and new possibilities for digital humanities in art history more generally. Greenwald’s book is a provocative shake-up of the canon and successfully makes the case that both the quantitative and qualitative are fundamental to a truly critical social history of art."—Paul B. Jaskot, director of Duke University’s Wired! Lab for Digital Art History and Visual Culture


      			Artificial You: AI and the Future of Your Mind A guide to AI’s thorniest implications that asks: How shall we navigate our brave new world?

We are at a monumental turning point in human history. AI is taking intelligence in new directions. The strongest human competitors in chess, go, and Jeopardy! have been beaten by AIs, and AI is getting more sophisticated by the day. Further, AI research is going inside the human brain itself, attempting to augment human minds. It may even create greater-than-human-level intelligence, leading to a new generation of artificial minds—Minds 2.0. Susan Schneider, a philosopher, argues that these undertakings must not be attempted without a richer understanding of the nature of the mind. An insufficient grasp of the underlying philosophical issues could undermine the use of AI and brain enhancement technology, bringing about the demise or suffering of conscious beings. Examining the philosophical questions lying beneath the algorithms, Schneider takes on AI’s thorniest implications.

Awards and Recognition

One of Forbes' Must-Read Brain Books of 2019
Finalist for the PROSE Award in Philosophy, Association of American Publishers





Susan Schneider is the NASA/Baruch Blumberg Chair of Astrobiology and Technological Innovation at the Library of Congress and NASA, and the Dietrich Distinguished Professor of Philosophy and Neuroscience at Florida Atlantic University. Twitter @DrSueSchneider











"Packed with material that enlightens new ways of thinking about a hot topic. . . . A philosophical tour with real-world implications."—Forbes
"Schneider is a sure-footed and witty guide to slippery ethical terrain."—Washington Post
"[A] demanding dialogue between philosophy and science."—Nature
"A well-reasoned and thoughtful discussion about the need for AI researchers and policymakers to place more emphasis on the question of consciousness."—Times Higher Education
"This riveting book is both entertaining and profound."—Martin Rees, author of On the Future
"Is artificial consciousness possible? Could you become an AI? Would you still be you? Schneider makes a vivid and compelling case that the future of humanity may depend on the answers to these philosophical questions."—David J. Chalmers, author of The Conscious Mind





          Additional Links
      


Author Susan Schneider, New York Times Op-Ed




      			Essential Discrete Mathematics for Computer Science		





Harry Lewis is Gordon McKay Professor of Computer Science and former dean of Harvard College at Harvard University. His books include Blown to Bits: Your Life, Liberty, and Happiness after the Digital Explosion. Rachel Zax is a software engineer at Google.











"I want to share with everybody my enjoyment of this excellent textbook."—Narciso Marti-Oliet, European Math Society
"Those teaching computer scientists who take discrete mathematics alongside other mathematics modules such as linear algebra and calculus (as is the case with the CS20 students at Harvard), and who need a book with an emphasis on proof, will likely and this book a very good choice for their students."—London Mathematical Society, Glenn Hawe
"Carefully constructed and elegantly written, this book delivers exactly what its title promises—an introductory treatment of all the essentials of discrete mathematics that a computer scientist needs to know."—David P. Williamson, Cornell University 
"This excellent book is an outstanding combination of clarity, rigor, and elegance. Lewis and Zax have produced a remarkably comprehensive guide to the world of discrete mathematics—a guide that will be invaluable for any student of computer science."—John MacCormick, Dickinson College
"Lewis and Zax give us a nice introduction to the essential concepts of discrete mathematics that any computer scientist should know. Their book presents a rigorous treatment of the important results, but it also goes beyond that by discussing the big picture behind the key ideas. Their explanations are at the perfect level for anyone with little background in mathematical proofs, making it ideal as a textbook or as supplementary reading."—Saúl A. Blanco, Indiana University
"Finally, a book that covers discrete mathematics the way I like to teach it to students of computer science."—Saad Mneimneh, Hunter College, City University of New York





          Additional Links
      


Instructor’s Manual:Princeton University Press offers an instructor’s manual (PDF format) to qualified faculty who have adopted this book in a current course. Please email your name, institution, a complete university shipping address, course name, enrollment, semester, book title and author to exam_copy@press.princeton.edu. Use subject line such as “Solution Manual Request.” Subject to approval. Any questions or comments regarding course use books may be sent to julie_haenisch@press.princeton.edu.




      			Things Fall Together: A Guide to the New Materials Revolution From the visionary founder of the Self-Assembly Lab at MIT, a manifesto for the dawning age of active materials

Things in life tend to fall apart. Cars break down. Buildings fall into disrepair. Personal items deteriorate. Yet today’s researchers are exploiting newly understood properties of matter to program materials that physically sense, adapt, and fall together instead of apart. These materials open new directions for industrial innovation and challenge us to rethink the way we build and collaborate with our environment. Things Fall Together is a provocative guide to this emerging, often mind-bending reality, presenting a bold vision for harnessing the intelligence embedded in the material world.Drawing on his pioneering work on self-assembly and programmable material technologies, Skylar Tibbits lays out the core, frequently counterintuitive ideas and strategies that animate this new approach to design and innovation. From furniture that builds itself to shoes printed flat that jump into shape to islands that grow themselves, he describes how matter can compute and exhibit behaviors that we typically associate with biological organisms, and challenges our fundamental assumptions about what physical materials can do and how we can interact with them. Intelligent products today often rely on electronics, batteries, and complicated mechanisms. Tibbits offers a different approach, showing how we can design simple and elegant material intelligence that may one day animate and improve itself—and along the way help us build a more sustainable future.Compelling and beautifully designed, Things Fall Together provides an insider’s perspective on the materials revolution that lies ahead, revealing the spectacular possibilities for designing active materials that can self-assemble, collaborate, and one day even evolve and design on their own.




Skylar Tibbits is founder and codirector of the Self-Assembly Lab and Associate Professor of Design Research in the Department of Architecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His books include Active Matter and Self-Assembly Lab: Experiments in Programming Matter. He lives in Boston. Website selfassemblylab.mit.edu Twitter @SkylarTibbits Instagram @skylartibbits











"In Skylar Tibbits's ideal world, roads, buildings, and objects are tingling, made of active materials whose particles and units bind and unbind and recombine in mesmerizing harmony. There is little to no waste, an endless trove of new forms and solutions, and the ability to test and perfect along the way. I want to go there."—Paola Antonelli, senior curator of architecture and design and director of research and development, Museum of Modern Art
"In this book, Tibbits proposes a future where artificial intelligence is not an end in itself but an embodied feature of the products that we make. It is a future that is more humane precisely because of the shared tactility and materiality of stuff. There is no doubt in my mind that the future of materials science lies in the development of the types of animate matter described in this book."—Mark Miodownik, author of Stuff Matters
"Things Fall Together is a revolutionary book that helps us see into the future. Skylar Tibbits provides new design possibilities that rely on biological principles to activate materials into self-assembly. His pioneering approach is exactly what we need for Mars exploration and other space missions."—Dava Newman, Apollo Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics at MIT and former NASA Deputy Administrator
"Much like how material innovation in vacuum tubes and transistors paved the way for Moore's law in electronics and computing at a nano scale, Tibbits's Things Fall Together lays a road map for exponential improvements in the logic and functionality of everyday materials at a macro scale."—Gihan Amarasiriwardena, Ministry of Supply
"This book offers invaluable insights into a highly influential body of research that promises to have a major impact on the discourse of architecture. Things Fall Together is a fascinating read."—Neil Leach, coeditor of Digital Tectonics
"This engaging and well-written book will inspire designers, engineers, and anyone who enjoys popular science, and is sure to stimulate research in the broader scientific community."—Nikolaus Correll, University of Colorado Boulder





          Additional Links
      


Skylar Tibbits TED Talk: A new way to grow islands and coastlines




      			A City Is Not a Computer: Other Urban Intelligences A bold reassessment of "smart cities" that reveals what is lost when we conceive of our urban spaces as computers

Computational models of urbanism—smart cities that use data-driven planning and algorithmic administration—promise to deliver new urban efficiencies and conveniences. Yet these models limit our understanding of what we can know about a city. A City Is Not a Computer reveals how cities encompass myriad forms of local and indigenous intelligences and knowledge institutions, arguing that these resources are a vital supplement and corrective to increasingly prevalent algorithmic models.Shannon Mattern begins by examining the ethical and ontological implications of urban technologies and computational models, discussing how they shape and in many cases profoundly limit our engagement with cities. She looks at the methods and underlying assumptions of data-driven urbanism, and demonstrates how the “city-as-computer” metaphor, which undergirds much of today’s urban policy and design, reduces place-based knowledge to information processing. Mattern then imagines how we might sustain institutions and infrastructures that constitute more diverse, open, inclusive urban forms. She shows how the public library functions as a steward of urban intelligence, and describes the scales of upkeep needed to sustain a city’s many moving parts, from spinning hard drives to bridge repairs.Incorporating insights from urban studies, data science, and media and information studies, A City Is Not a Computer offers a visionary new approach to urban planning and design.




Shannon Mattern is professor of anthropology at the New School for Social Research. Her books include Code and Clay, Data and Dirt: Five Thousand Years of Urban Media and The New Downtown Library: Designing with Communities. She lives in New York City. Website wordsinspace.net Instagram @atlas.sounds Twitter @shannonmattern






"Mattern offers a radically new perspective on the city as information and our modes of engagement with it. This stunning book presents a set of ideas that will continue to have a profound effect on scholarship and practice."—Daniel A. Barber, author of Modern Architecture and Climate: Design before Air Conditioning
"Mattern compellingly argues that smart urbanism is too technocratic and instrumental in its approach to urban life, predominately serving the interests of capital and elites. In this engaging and well-illustrated book, she opens up new ways of thinking about the relationship between technology, space, and society."—Rob Kitchin, National University of Ireland, Maynooth

